Market Structure Ep.01: Swing Points
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TDtW_2Sg3a4

In this video, I'm starting a new series of episodes about market structure. And each episode will focus on an important concept showing the theory and the practice. The series will also follow a structured and logical order so you can learn all about this topic without being distracted by the information overload of social media. If you enjoy what I create in this channel, please consider clicking the like and subscribing if you haven't already. Without further ado, let's begin with the very first idea you should learn in market structure, which is the swing point. The swing point is a foundational concept in market structure. It helps traders define highs and lows objectively and anticipate reversals with simple price action. We can also build simple and effective trading models using the idea of swing points. The swing point is a simple three candle pattern. A swing high is formed when a candle has a lower high to the left and a lower high to the right. That indicates a reversal to the downside. A swing low is formed when a candle has a higher low to the left and a higher low to the right. That indicates a reversal to the upside. The main realization here is that price action cannot reverse without a swing point. So every time you detect a swing point in your chart, you are in front of a possible significant reversal. Here we have a good example of this. At this moment, price action just formed a swing high. There's a lower high to the left and to the right of this candle. Immediately after that, we see price going to the downside. So, even a simple and mechanical pattern like this can point to significant reversals. However, the reality of price action is not that simple. Otherwise, we would be able to trade successfully just by using swing points. I said that price action cannot reverse without a swing point, which is true. But it's also true that not every swing point leads to a meaningful price reversal. In other words, swing points generate false signals in many cases. Using the same chart example of the swing high that worked on the way down, we can detect a couple of swing lows that were false signals. Swing lows were formed and yet price action continue going down. Anyway, that leads us to the fact that we need a way of filtering out the bad swing point signals. The legendary trader Larry Williams, who has won the Robins Cup in 1987 with the largest return in history, developed a technique for precisely that problem. Larry Williams states that the secret to filtering swing points lies in the inside candles. The problem with the inside candles is that they automatically create a swing point and in many cases the swing point will be a false signal. Going back to the chart example here, we have a swing low formed by an inside candle. We have a higher low to the left and right of this candle and the candle on the right is an inside candle. Even though this is a valid swing low signal, we see that price continues to the downside right after. The reason that swing points formed by inside candles tend to fail is because inside candles don't necessarily mean a reversal. A lot of the times they are just a momentary stop in price action that leads to a continuation rather than a reversal. That is indeed what happened here. A continuation rather than a reversal. The filtering technique goes like this. Imagine the price is going up. So we are waiting for a swing high to form to signal a reversal to the downside. Eventually, an inside candle is formed, which automatically creates a swing high pattern. Whenever the swing point is formed by an inside candle, we must pay attention to the range of the candle that represents the swing point. The range is simply the vertical space from the low to the high of the candle. To confirm the swing high, we must pay attention if price breaks the lower part of the range. Here we have two possibilities. Price can break the range with a wick or it can close below it. Both alternatives are valid, but using a wick break is a more aggressive approach while waiting for a candle closure outside the range is a more conservative approach. You must choose which alternative fits your trading style. If price simply doesn't break the range to the downside and breaks the upper boundary in the case of a swing high, the swing high is classified as false. Filtering swing lows of course follows the same logic. Let's go back to the price chart and observe how this filtering technique would change our perception of price action. Here we have the same example from before. Price forms a swing high, but notice that the swing high doesn't involve an inside candle to the right. So, it is a valid swing high. In the next couple of candles, price naturally goes down. In the next candle, we have the formation of a swing low. But notice that this one was formed by an inside candle to the right. This is the sign for you to pay attention to the range of the candle that formed the swing low. In the next candle, we see something interesting. Price touches the upper boundary of the swing point range and comes back down. Notice that this is not a wick breakout nor a candle closure. So, the swing low in question remains unconfirmed. In the next candle, another interesting thing happens. Price breaks the lower boundary of the swing low. And notice how now a true swing high has formed. There's a candle with a lower high to the left and to the right. That shifts our attention from the previous swing low to the new swing high. Observe how the filtering technique prevented us from trusting the false swing low. The next candle immediately creates a swing low. We have a candle with the higher low to the left and to the right. Therefore, we shift our attention to the most recent swing point. This one was not formed by an inside candle, so it is a valid swing low. The next candle immediately forms a valid swing high. Therefore, quickly disconfirming the valid swing low formed two candles back. In the next couple of candles, price resumes the movement down. This is an example of how we can filter price movement [clears throat] using swing points and Larry Williams inside candle rule. Notice that this filtering technique allowed us to remove false signals and valid signals that didn't work were quickly invalidated and reversed. Let's see another simple example of this filtering technique. Here we have a very clear swing low. A candle with a higher low to the left and right. Three candles later, an inside candle is printed forming a swing high pattern. According to the filtering technique, we need to turn on our attention to the range of the candle that forms the swing highlighted with the blue arrow. For the swing high to be confirmed, price will need to violate the lower boundary of this range. Moving a few candles into the future, we can see that this doesn't happen. Therefore, the swing high is never confirmed. Price breaks the upper boundary of the false swing highs range. Eventually, price forms a new swing high. But this time, the pattern doesn't include an inside candle on the right. In fact, the candle in the middle of the pattern, which represents the swing high, is an outside candle to the downside. Right after that, we see that price does reverse to the downside more significantly. In other words, the filtering technique proposed by Larry Williams allowed us to ignore the false swing high in the middle of the upward movement and trust the true one that happened a little bit later. Even though the swing point is an extremely simple pattern, it has many variations and just the observation of price action among three adjacent candlesticks can spark several interpretations. One of these interpretations points to a logical type of swing point, which is perhaps a stronger version of a valid swing point. In the case of a swing high, the candle in the middle breaks the previous candle's high with a wick, but it closes below the level. The interpretation is simple. Buyers moved above the previous candle's high, but sellers reacted immediately, making the candle close below the last candle's high. After that, the third candle in the pattern closes below the range established by the candle in the middle. That is in theory the power being shifted from buyers to sellers. The swing low pattern is exactly the opposite. Of course, here we see a real example of this type of swing. Notice that we have a swing low pattern. The week of the candle in the middle breaks the previous low, but price closes above the low, showing that buyers reacted to the sellers attempting to go down. In the next candle that confirms the swing low pattern, we see price closing above the range of the middle candle. What follows is a significant move upwards. This example shows us that it's not just about the simple swing point pattern. It's also about the logical interpretation of how the swing point is formed. If you want to learn more about the subtle information contained in candlesticks that point to reversals or continuations and also another extremely effective price action filtering technique, please check out my course called Fractal Trading, Mastering Price Action and Beyond in the video description. Given this information about swing points, I'm going to give you two simple trading models that you can start applying immediately. The anchored VWOP swing point model and the mechanical swingoint zone model. This first model involves plotting an anchored VWAP on a swing point to predict the end of the next pullback. When dealing with swing highs, the VWOP source of calculation should be set for highs. And when dealing with swing lows, the source of calculation should be set for lows. Once price returns to the VWOP line, we're going to observe the formation of a valid swing point to confirm the end of the pullback and the start of the next impulse move. For example, here we see price going down and then retracing back up. At this point, an anchored VWAP can be placed at the highest high. And since we are dealing with swing highs, the source of calculation is set to high in the VWAP so that the line starts at the very beginning of the swing point like so. Once the VWAP is plotted, we see that this is the first time price action reacts to the line and it does so with an outside bearish candle. This candle also has a lower high to its left. So, if the next candle has a lower high and it's not an inside candle, we have the confirmation that this is the next significant swing high. In the next candle, we have the confirmation that this is a valid swing high since the candle on the right is not an inside candle. Moving a few candles into the future, we see that this was indeed the end of the pullback and automatically the beginning of the next impulse move down. We also see price action returning to the anchored VWAP once again and reacting to it judging by the larger upper week in this candle. Just like before, this candle has a lower high to the left. So, if the next candle forms a lower high and it's not an inside candle, we have the end of this current pullback. Moving one candle to the future, we have an inside candle. According to the filtering technique we learned from Larry Williams, we should now observe if price breaks the range of the candle that represents the swing point to the downside. A few candles later, we see that price fails to break the range to the downside, comes back to the VW up and reacts back down, forming a new swing high, which is valid because it doesn't contain an inside candle on its right side. From that point onwards, the next impulse move to the downside begins. This is extremely simple to apply and extremely effective as you can see. Although it involves an orderflow tool we'll focus on another time. If you want to learn more about orderflow, I have a whole course about it. You can also check that out in the video description. I also have a free orderflow course in the channel. The second model we're going to study involves a type of mechanical supply and demand zone that emerges from the swing point pattern. To find these zones, you need to detect the range of price action that is common among the three candles of the same point pattern. For example, on the left, we have a swing high. The range of price action where all candle ranges intersect is marked in red. This automatically and mechanically creates a supply zone. The same idea, of course, works in a swing low, forming a demand zone. For example, here we can see one of these mechanical supply zones coming out of the swing high on the left. The height of the zone is determined by the range of price action that is common to all three candles in the swing high. The intersection of the candle ranges. At the current moment, we see price coming back to this zone and reacting to it. The candle on the left has a lower high, which makes this current candle a potential swing high. In the next candle, we see a candle with a lower high, but it is an inside candle. This means that we need to pay attention to the range established by the candle that forms the swing high. Two candles later, we see a candle closure below the lower boundary of the range which confirms the swing high as valid. This is the entry point in this model and in the next candles we see how price falls into profit. This is also another extremely effective way of catching the next pullback. This concludes the first episode of the market structure series. In episode number two, we're going to expand on the idea of swing points and fractals, following another great lesson from Larry Williams, which will allow us to pinpoint high probability trades early in a trend. If you want to access more advanced high probability trading techniques right now, please check out my premium courses in the video description. You can find their table of contents and testimonials in my website fractlowpro.com. And you can also ask me questions directly at supportfroulpro.com. If you enjoyed this video, please don't forget to click the like button, subscribe to the channel, activate all notifications, leave your feedback below in the comment section, and share the video with your trading community. Thank you very much for watching, and I hope to see you in the next videos. Take care.
