The DARK Side of Market Makers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GH-D6MkirYs

In today's video, I'm going to talk about a deeply misunderstood topic, especially among retail traders who tend to believe false narratives propagated on social media. We're going to explore how market makers really act, what that means for you as a retail trader, and how you can take advantage of it. This will greatly enhance your understanding of the liquidity game in trading. If you want to support the creation of videos like this, please click the like button, subscribe, and share this video if you haven't already. That helps the channel a lot. So, what is a market maker? Let's begin from the very basics. In technical analysis, the term market maker is sort of an umbrella term that encapsulates different types of market participants that can manipulate price in some degree. In market micro structure, a market maker has a narrower definition. It's a type of player that provides liquidity. With that said, it's clear that to really understand how liquidity works, we need a good grasp on the behavior of market makers in the micro structure sense. Technical analysis simply doesn't go deep enough. Even though it's true that market makers can manipulate price to some degree, in some cases, that's not exactly what they do. as you're about to see. Unsurprisingly, social media does a great job at promoting the wrong narratives around difficult topics. So, this video is an attempt to fix that. The result is that many retail traders don't even understand the basic definition of liquidity. So, it's safe to say that they don't understand how it works in the highest level of analysis too. Liquidity is the ease with which a market can be traded without causing significant changes in price. High liquidity markets require a lot of trading activity for price to move and low liquidity markets don't. If you want an illustration of how that works in the order book and the different kinds of liquidity that exist, please watch my video called liquidity concepts explained in 30 minutes. Normal buyers and sellers like funds and retail traders already create a certain level of liquidity because different players have different perceptions about the market at all times. So why do we need a specific market participant whose primary role is to provide liquidity? There are mainly two problems that market makers attempt to solve. The preeemption problem and the depth problem. Let's unpack one by one. Buyers want to buy low and sellers want to sell high. But in financial markets, buyers and sellers anticipate the behavior of one another by observing the order flow and they position themselves strategically because of that. For example, imagine you are a seller and you detect an increase in demand in the order flow. What would you do if there is an increase in demand? Sellers will automatically become more willing to trade at higher prices. The opposite is also true. Of course, if buyers detect that there is an increase in supply in the order flow, they will become more willing to trade at lower prices. The result is that there is always a gap between the highest price buyers are willing to trade the bid and the lowest price sellers are willing to trade the ask. This is the well-known bid ask spread and without market makers it becomes too wide. You understand why that is in a moment. Another problem is related to the depth of market. Without the presence of market makers, the natural liquidity provided by buyers and sellers may not have enough depth to ensure stable market conditions. Even though you might be able to trade due to the natural liquidity, volatility will be a problem since price levels can be easily consumed in either side. Large institutional players also have a problem here because executing large orders in a low liquidity market is a recipe for disaster. The flash crash is a good example of how the absence of market makers can quickly destabilize the market. In May 6 of 2010, a mutual fund based in Kansas called Wad and Reed attempted to sell 75,000 immedi contracts totaling around $4.1 billion. Their goal was to hedge their equity portfolio against downside risk. Under normal liquidity, such a sale program could be absorbed gradually. But because market makers began to step back as volatility spiked, the sell program's orders overwhelmed the thin order book. So prices went down rapidly. The reason market makers stepped away instead of observing the massive order is because if a market maker detects it might enter on the opposite side of a well-informed trade, it will step away from it to avoid being run over so to speak. The problem was that water and breeds algorithm was selling relentlessly in an already low liquidity market. The massive sell order basically scared market makers in high frequency trading firms away, therefore destabilizing the market. So in principle, market makers are not there to manipulate retail traders. They are there because without their liquidity provision role, financial markets would become much more unstable and violent than they are. So they are essential. However, this unique liquidity provision role allows them to sometimes nudge the market in such a way that feels like manipulation in the eyes of a retail trader. To understand this statement, you need to become aware of how market makers actually make money. Market makers can profit in a variety of different ways. The bid ask spread, exchange rebates, inventory hedging, orderflow advantage, and payment for order flow. The bid ask spread is their primary source of profit. They quote bid and ask prices inside the spread and capture that difference. In other words, they act inside the spread unlike the other market participants who can only act at or outside the spread. Even though the trades are small in terms of price range, they execute these types of trades hundreds or even thousands of times per day. So it adds up. Highfrequency trading firms which also act as market makers in some cases are specialized in these tiny trades. Set trades happen in the nano and microscond time frame. It happens like this. The market maker will quote a slightly higher bid which will attract some sellers and a slightly lower ask which will attract some buyers. This market maker will capture this range inside the spread unless another market maker is able to quote even narrower bid and ask prices. In essence, market makers buy low and sell high. But they do that inside the spread and in a very small time frame. We are talking about micro and nanoconds. Here that interval between two ticks you see in the price chart actually hides a fierce battle that is simply incomprehensible to a retail trader. Another source of profit for the market maker is the exchange rebates. Many exchanges pay liquidity rebates to participants who post resting limit orders that get filled. So they can make money by just posting quotes without necessarily catching the bid as spread. This is called market taker model. Market makers, the liquidity providers, get a rebate for posting limit orders that get filled. Market takers, the liquidity consumers, pay a fee for using market orders that hit those resting quotes. A market maker always aims to have a deltaneutral inventory, meaning neutral to the directional risk of the market. Recall that they are not interested in riding large trends. They just want to capture tiny trades inside the spread. The reason they want to be delta neutral is because one significant price swing can wipe out many of the small profits they make with a bid ask spread. to become delta neutral. They hedge their trades in correlated markets. The point here is that this hedge if executed at favorable prices will become an extra source of profit beyond the bidesque spread. By the way, the fact that market makers hash their trades in correlated markets is just another reason why markets are correlated. It's not because there is some sort of master algorithm behind all markets like some people believe. Market makers can see a greater and more detailed portion of the order flow. So it's obvious that they can have anformational advantage over other market participants like retail traders for example. They are not allowed to frontr run other participants of course but since they have access to high quality orderflow data they can model short-term probabilities more accurately. Market makers have access to things like full depth of book which shows each individual order with participant ID which allows for the precise reconstruction of times and sales. There's also market by order with sequencing which records every single event order submission, cancellation, modification and execution. In other words, market makers have access to a level of detail in the order flow that is incomprehensible to a retail trader. A good metaphor here is this. Imagine that the market is a crowd of people inside a dark room. The crowd is the market participants and the darkness is the opacity of information. A market maker is like a person using night vision goggles. In other words, they can cut through some of the opacity of information and make better decisions by anticipating the behavior of other people in the room. Another interesting and profitable source of revenue for market makers is what is called payment for order flow. is a practice where retail brokers route their customers orders to specific market makers in exchange for a payment and in return the market maker execute those orders often at a slightly better price than what's publicly available at the exchange. Market makers love this because retail order flow is primarily uninformed which means it's predictable in the industry. Retail order flow is called non-toxic order flow. It's much safer for a market maker to act in that environment because they don't have the risk of trading against a large well-informed entity for example. This is advantageous to the retail traders as well because they get slightly better prices. So even though market makers pay the brokers for this, they can make more money by obtaining the non-toxic order flow. Retail traders tend to believe that market makers are invincible and never lose money. But that's not true. Market makers are exposed to a variety of risks due to their unique role. Mainly the inventory risk, adverse selection and latency risk. The inventory risk is the main risk of a market maker. Like I said previously, market makers aim to be delta neutral. However, there are moments where maintaining a deltaneutral inventory can be challenging. For example, when the market suddenly moves sharply against their inventory. Adverse selection is the risk of trading against a well-informed player. It's what is known as toxic order flow. Recall that non-toxic order flow is uninformed and predictable like retail traders. Toxic order flow comes from trading institutions with some sort offormational advantage. Another risk is the latency risk. Market makers in highfrequency trading firms compete fiercely for the ability to place faster quotes as this makes the difference in which market maker ends up profiting. So any disadvantage in terms of latency even of a few milliseconds can be decisive in that sense. Retail traders believe there is just one market maker ruling the market and this opens a window of opportunity for conspiracy theories to emerge. The reality is that there are many market makers and they compete with one another in a ferocious battle that happens in the micro and nancond time frame. It's a battle to offer the best bid and ask prices and to get priority in the order book queue. This competition is what ensures great liquidity and narrow spreads for retail traders. For example, some retail traders are a bit like a rebellious teenager. They complain about the people who allow them to have an easier life. In other words, there isn't one algorithm that delivers price action like what you hear on social media. There are many algorithms with different purposes competing to ensure market stability. Market makers are necessary to help maintain market stability, but their unique liquidity provision role also opens the door for a darker side. What I mean by this is that the ability to quote prices inside the spread opens the possibility for market makers to nudge the market in certain cases. To understand how that's possible, we need two concepts. Liquidity engineering and quote skewing. Liquidity engineering is about changing the depth of the order book, therefore facilitating or obstructing the order flow. Quote skewing is about tilting the order flow to a particular direction. These two ideas are complimentary as you'll see in a moment. Let's begin first by understanding liquidity engineering. Market makers can place quotes inside the spread which is called internal liquidity. But they can also place limit orders outside the spread like a retail or institutional trader would which is called external liquidity. By engineering market depth and therefore liquidity both internally and externally, market makers can obstruct or facilitate price movement to one of the sides in a subtle way. Reducing market depth across price levels will of course decrease liquidity and facilitate price movement. Increasing market depth across price levels will increase liquidity and obstruct price movements. Recall that a liquid market is a difficult market to move. Liquidity engineering doesn't necessarily induce price to one side. It just creates a path of least resistance so to speak. The greater the depth, the greater the resistance. For example, consider this hypothetical situation. Shallow depth is represented by darker colors and greater depth is represented by brighter colors in a spectrum. In this situation, we can see that we have shallower depth near the spread and as price levels get farther away from it, market depth increases. Now, let's say that market makers decide to increase market depth right above the ask. This will naturally create a path of least resistance to the downside because there is less liquidity in the bid. The point here is that they can provide or remove liquidity internally and externally and this has the effect of facilitating or obstructing price movements to an extent. In a way, market makers can make it easier for price to go in a particular direction, tilting the path of least resistance, so to speak. This effect can be further exacerbated if market makers remove the external liquidity in the bid. However, like I said before, individual market makers have limited power. The competition among market makers ensures that no individual market maker has too much power. However, the behavior of one market maker can influence other market makers to act in a similar way causing a chain reaction. One market maker observing another one trying to engineer liquidity might influence the observer market maker to mimic the behavior assuming the observed market maker has better information. So, ironically and surprisingly, the set of market makers can move in herds. The other part of this equation is quote skewing. So far we have seen how market makers can capture profits inside the spread. The bid and ask price is created by the natural liquidity meaning market participants that are not market makers is called the best bid and best ask. They profit by quoting the market makers bid and ask prices inside the spread like so. We now need to establish the difference between the best ask and market makers ask and the best bid and the market makers bid. Let's call this distance between the best ask and the market maker's ask A and the distance between the best bid and the market maker's bid B. In this illustration, you can see that A equals B, meaning that the quotes are symmetrical. Quote skewing is all about quoting asymmetrical prices. For example, in this other illustration, you can see that the market maker's ask got lowered and the market maker's bid stayed the same. Therefore, A is greater than B. The crucial point here is that a lower ask will attract buyers and consequently nudge price to the upside. Recall that buyers want to buy low. So the lower the ask, the more buyers will be willing to engage, however suddenly in this case. In summary, by changing the symmetry of bid and ask prices, market makers can nudge price in a particular direction. This nudge can become stronger if the market maker decreases liquidity in the ask column. That's why I said that liquidity engineering and quote skewing are complimentary. Quote skewing is the incentive and liquidity engineering is the resistance. So even though market makers aim to be neutral to market direction, they will engage in this directional game in order to balance their inventories. In fact, moving the market into pools of natural liquidity such as the ones provided by retail traders stop orders is advantageous to the market makers because these regions represent pockets of non-toxic order flow. So yes, market makers can manipulate price but not in the large sense. They can nudge price to key liquidity areas but they will not drive trends. They don't have to. Whales on the other hand which are large institutional players do have the intention of creating trends by taking advantage of variable liquidity across price levels. If you want to know how the behavior of whales gives rise to the idea of supply and demand zones, watch my video called master institutional supply and demand in 45 minutes. The relationship between market makers and whales is sometimes cooperative, sometimes competitive, and always adaptive. Both can end up using the liquidity pools created by the retail crowd to their advantage. Market makers are trying to provide liquidity while trying to maintain a delta neutral inventory. Whales are trying to hide their massive orders in the order flow so they don't draw the attention of other players including market makers. Whales unlike market makers do have directional intent. In summary, market makers have manipulative power in the micro sense and whales have manipulative power in a macro sense. You can say that market makers can act as the spark and whales represent the fire. Liquidity is the fuel for this fire and is partly provided by retail traders. The liquidity engineering of market makers often interacts with the natural liquidity of normal buyers and sellers. So market manipulation is a real thing, but not in the way that retail traders expect. When retail traders see their stops being triggered, they immediately assume that they are being hunted by other market participants. That is not always true. Market manipulation is more of an emergent behavior rather than an intentional one. Like it was stated previously, market makers can lead price to liquidity pools in order to rebalance their inventories and remain delta neutral. Whales on the other hand will drive price to liquidity pools in order to get on the other side of the trade with the goal of ultimately riding the large trend. The behavioral sum of market makers highfrequency trading firms in Wales gives rise to emergent behavior that feels like there is one entity manipulating the market. But there isn't one entity capable of maneuvering a highly liquid market by itself. This is what Richard Wyoff called the composite operator. But at the time of WOVF, markets were not electronic, so there were no algorithms. Market makers were human beings at the open outcry. Wales also existed. Even though this term was not used back then, large speculators like Jesse Livermore were what called well-informed players. Woff's patterns still remain true today. Despite the fact that markets are electronic for one very simple reason, what creates all these patterns are not the algorithms. The underlying driver is human psychology and self-interest interacting with liquidity, not the technology that allows it to happen. The way supply and demand and liquidity work have always been the same and they will always be regardless of how technology evolves. The very nature of markets is also fundamentally decentralized. What changes is the context, complexity and the speed with which the market evolves, but the underlying motives of action remain the same. So in essence, Wackov's patterns of manipulation are timeless because human nature is also timeless. This is why the patterns that some retail traders believe to be created by a master algorithm behind the market are the same patterns that happen when algorithms themselves did not exist. Beyond that, in the realm of speculation, self-fulfilling prophecies play a large role. The way one type of player believes the other players behave can end up influencing the final result. So even a false belief can turn out to have some truth to it. Sometimes you see a price chart and it looks like manipulation is taking place. But that's not always true. Now that you have a better understanding of how market makers, whales, and retail traders interact in the context of micro structure, let's observe an example of how manipulation maneuvers can be traded using a combination of price action and orderflow tools, and how the behavior of retail traders, market makers, and whales leaves clues for those who take the time to educate themselves. Let's observe a simple example in the 1 hour S&amp;P 500. In this chart, we see price going up steadily and then going down sharply. What we want to understand in this case are the reasons that led to an upper price movement right after this wide range bearish movement. In terms of market structure, we can see that price goes down and pokes an area where there are several swing lows as it is highlighted here. This is what some people call liquidity inducement. And if you saw my other liquidity concepts video, you know that this is a useful area for market makers in Wales because of the latent retail liquidity just below the swing points. It's for this reason that many retail traders believe that price is attracted to liquidity which is incorrect. Price is attracted to areas of fair value and repelled from areas of unfair value. Liquidity is just the mean through which that happens. For example, in a situation like this, we can easily see the fair value area using an orderflow tool called volume profile. If I plot the volume profile in the upward price movement, we see that price comes back to the point of control of the profile, meaning the price level with the most trading activity. That is in fact what attracts the market. But the fact that there is latent liquidity sitting around in those swing lows just makes it easier for institutional traders to engage. If you have no idea what I'm talking about, please watch my playlist called Real Smart Money Concepts. There you will learn about order flow, auction market theory, market structure, institutional supply and demand, the WOFF method, and liquidity concepts in greater detail. So in summary, we have price reaching an area of fair value, which also has latent liquidity waiting to be triggered. Recall that market makers can nudge the market into these liquidity pools to rebalance their inventories. For example, whales can use these areas to engage in order splitting in the attempt to hide their massive orders. If you look at the footprint chart, we'll notice that inside the fair value zone represented by the consolidation we've been analyzing, there are two large stacked imbalances in the ask. The footprint is a historical order flow tool. So, the ask column shows buying aggression unlike the order book where the ask column shows selling intention. If you zoom into a specific area of the footprint corresponding to the moment price reaches the fair value area and latent liquidity simultaneously, we'll see some sort of narrative emerging. For a lay person, the footprint looks like a useless and chaotic mess. But for the trained eye is a gold mine. The first detail is on the lower part of the wide range bearish candle. There's a stacked imbalance in the bid coincided with the intersection of the two other stacked imbalances highlighted in green. This shows that price was attracted to that area and found difficulty trying to go beyond it. Recalling that the stacked imbalance shows areas where the balance between supply and demand tilted too much. In the next candle, we possibly have the liquidity engineering of market makers knowing that there is latent liquidity from the previous swing lows and also the liquidity that naturally exists below the low of the wide range bearish candle. You can treat the extremes of individual candles as broader extremes. In this bullish candle, we see that the lower shadow cuts through the three levels representing liquidity pools from the past. And in terms of order flow, there is an interesting detail. At the low of the candle, we see a two level stacked imbalance in the bid. This means that sellers were trying hard to go down. It also represents the fact that there might be more trading activity due to the triggering of stop orders. However, the main point relates to a principle in the WO of method called effort and result where effort is volume or in this case order flow and result is price action. We see an effort to the downside that is not translated into price action. That in itself is a form of divergence. Recalling that price action is more important than volume. We see price closing way above the stacked imbalance in the bid showing that sellers were absorbed and beyond that we see price closing above a stacked imbalance in the ask which is a sign of buying initiation. This stacked imbalance in the ask possibly represents the behavior of whales engaging in order splitting although it could be something else entirely. The reason this could be order splitting is the fact that price action returns precisely to this area two candles later and then finally sets off to the upside. You can see this as an unobvious demand zone that can only be seen with the footprint and the knowledge of how whales split orders in order to avoid drawing too much attention in the order flow. After that, we can see the price goes up. The point of this example is to show the subtle mechanics of how fair value and liquidity allow a chain reaction to occur from the micro level of market makers to the macro level of whales leading to a reversal. If you want to learn more about order flow and price action at this level of detail, I suggest you get my two flagship courses, Fractal Trading, Mastering Price Action and Beyond, and Advanced Orderflow Trading. These two courses work perfectly together. Hopefully, this video gives you a better understanding of market makers, liquidity, and order flow. If you want to learn more advanced trading ideas, I offer several courses and ebooks. You can check them out in my website fractalflowpro.com or you can send me an email at supportfrflowpro.com. If you want to support the ongoing creation of videos like this one, please click the like button, subscribe to the channel, activate the notifications, leave your feedback below in the comment section, and share this video with your trading community. Thank you very much for watching, and I hope to see you in the next videos. Take care.
