Master INSTITUTIONAL SUPPLY & DEMAND in 45 Minutes!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Ecd_RTI9fU

Welcome to the ultimate guide to institutional supply and demand trading. In this video, you are going to learn how supply and demand trading actually works. The relationship between supply, demand, and liquidity. The institutional vulnerability that allows retail traders to profit. The composite operator, which is one of the most misunderstood and yet important smart money concepts. How to objectively draw precise supply and demand zones based on institutional order flow. and how to spot the high probability zones with striking accuracy. We're also going to see lots of examples of the technique in real price charts. If you wish to support the channel, please consider clicking the like button and subscribing if you haven't already. Without further ado, let's begin. Before we dive into how you can take advantage of institutional supply and demand, we need to quickly cover the very basics of the concept. If you already know the basics, you can skip ahead to the next chapters. Supply and demand are one of the core concepts in microeconomics. It's the fundamental logic behind any market, not just the financial markets. It's useful to understand supply and demand separately in order to understand how they interact later. Demand is the willingness and ability of buyers to purchase an asset at various price levels. The lower the price of something, the more buyers are willing and able to purchase. In this graph, we see what is called the demand curve, which shows the various quantities that buyers are willing to trade at various prices. This represents the fact that buyers always want to buy low. The lower the price, the higher the quantity they are willing and able to purchase. Supply is the opposite. Supply is the willingness and ability of sellers to offer an asset at various price levels. The higher the price of something, the more sellers are willing and able to offer. In this graph, we see the supply curve, which shows the various quantities that sellers are willing to trade at various prices. Sellers always want to sell high. The higher the price, the higher the quantity they are willing and able to offer. Notice that buyers and sellers have conflicting interests. Buyers always want to buy low and sellers always want to sell high. This leads us to the law of supply and demand which states that price always seeks equilibrium. The point at which the quantity demanded equals the quantity supplied. This is easier to understand graphically. The equilibrium point is where the supply and demand curves intersect. And this represents the current price. It's a point of compromise between buyers and sellers so to speak. However, the market rarely stays at the same price. Price is always changing. The reason is because new information changes the perception of buyers and sellers at all times and this shifts the balance between supply and demand continuously. For example, imagine that new information makes buyers believe the current price is low. Buyers will become willing and able to buy more at the same price and that has the effect of shifting the demand curve to the right. When that happens, price has to go up to find a new equilibrium point along the supply curve. That is effectively how price changes. The same mechanics occurs with the supply curve. Of course, it's also possible that both curves change simultaneously. However, the reality of financial markets has a few important nuances. Buyers and sellers are always preempting the behavior of one another. If buyers detect an increase in supply, they will automatically become willing to buy at lower prices. If sellers detect an increase in demand, they will automatically become willing to sell at higher prices. This creates a spread between the highest price buyers are willing to trade at called bid price and the lowest price sellers are willing to trade at called ask price. This is where market makers and highfrequency trading firms enter the stage. Their primary goal is profit from the bid ask spread by providing liquidity. They do this by quoting a slightly higher bid and a slightly lower ask. The higher bid will attract some sellers and the lower ask will attract some buyers. Therefore, increasing market liquidity and reducing the spread. The market maker's profit lies inside the bid spread and it's a compensation for their liquidity provision role which helps stabilize the market since high liquidity can reduce volatility. Notice how market makers also want to buy low and sell high adhering to the mechanism of supply and demand, but they do that inside a bid spread. It's useful to think about supply and demand in terms of order flow too. We need two basic concepts here, aggressive and passive supply and demand. Aggressive supply or demand represents the initiation of movements through market orders. Passive supplier demand represents the absorption of movements through limit orders. This is easier to understand by looking at the order book. In the order book, we have three columns. The left column is the bid which shows the buy limit orders below the current price, meaning that it represents passive demand. The right column is the ask which shows the sell limit orders above the current price, meaning that it represents passive supply. The middle column represents the various price levels. Notice that in blue we have a bid spread meaning a liquidity vacuum due to the constant preeemption of behavior of buyers and sellers. This is where the market makers in high frequency trading firms will thrive. For price to go up, buyers have to aggressively consume the passive liquidity in the ask column. Recalling that market orders always match with limit orders. The same with sellers. For price to go down, sellers have to aggressively consume the passive liquidity in the bid column. The lower the available liquidity in each price level, the easier it is for price to consume that level and move on to the next. In other words, low liquidity facilitates price movement. One very important detail here is that market makers can either facilitate or block the advancement of price depending on the situation. By injecting liquidity, they can block price movement and by removing liquidity, they can facilitate price movement. This is a common situation when we find different trading institutions battling with one another. For example, let's say a large hedge fund wants to place a massive long position. Market makers and highfrequency trading firms can detect that in the order flow if the hedge fund is not careful. Depending on the situation, market makers can remove liquidity which will increase lipage for the hedge fund or they can try to anticipate the movement and profit from it if the market maker believes the hedge fund has good information. The reason I'm telling you this is for you to realize that the battle of liquidity is not just between institutions and retail traders. There are other battles happening between institutions. institutions all have a gun pointed at each other's head metaphorically speaking. It's a constant game of anticipation, deception, exploitation, and survival. There are two main reasons you should care about institutional supply and demand. The first reason is the fact that trading institutions like hedge funds and banks are responsible for most of the trading volume in any market. In forex and futures, 90% of what happens in the chart is institutional activity. In US equities, around 70 to 80% of shares are owned by institutions. It is estimated that more than half the daily trading volume in equities is represented by highfrequency trading firms alone. The second reason is that institutions are obligated to act in a certain way because of their size and that generates patterns that can be exploited by retail traders. Many retail traders believe that the power of institutions is only an advantage to them. But there are downsides to being that powerful and that's exactly where retail traders can thrive as long as they understand the true mechanics of institutional supply and demand. The bottom line here is that if you want to succeed in trading, you must understand the behavior of trading institutions. Otherwise, you will enter a competition that you simply cannot win. Instead of being on the losing side of a trade against an institution, you must learn how to ride with them. Supply and demand zones are a very important part of that process because they emerge out of the institution's vulnerability. It's not in the news that institutions have a lot of capital power and therefore they need to execute massive positions. Some institutions are so large that they can move price of even highly liquid markets. This poses a problem because if an institution tries to place a massive trade, it will draw the attention of other institutions. This can create a few problems for the institution trying to place the massive position. Let's first understand the problem of trying to execute a massive trade by looking at the supply and demand dynamics in the order book. Imagine that a big institution like a fund, for example, wants to execute a long position of 2,000 contracts. However, notice that the available liquidity in the ask column, which represents the passive supply in each price level, is not enough to accommodate the whole long position in one price level. For instance, at $30, only 250 contracts are necessary to exhaust the available liquidity. At this point, the institution still has 1,750 contracts to execute. So the only alternative is to move to the next price level where there are 3441 contracts. By taking that available liquidity, the institution still has 1,49 contracts to execute. You get the idea. A large position can easily consume the liquidity across several price levels and this will draw the attention of other institutions. If the large institution draws too much attention or deviates from its normal conduct, the other institutions can react in different ways. The first situation is called anticipatory trading, which is a legal form of front running. Trading institutions monitor the order flow constantly. So, anything that deviates from the norm will raise some red flags. If an institution tries to place a massive long trade, the other institutions monitoring the order flow can assume that this institution has good information. In this case, the other institutions would jump in long positions and that would increase slippage for the institution that drew attention even more because now there is even more demand and even less supply. The fact that the first institution drew attention creates a cascading effect that tilts the supply and demand balance even further. Anticipatory trading can be viewed as a response to or an exploitation of the dynamics of something called adverse selection. Adverse selection is the risk of trading against better informed participants. When institutions detect unusual or well-informed order flow, they adapt by either avoiding losses or attempting to profit from it. This adaptive behavior can include training ahead of that flow or stepping away from it to avoid being run over so to speak which leads us to the second situation. Another thing that can happen is a liquidity vacuum. Certain types of institutions have the primary goal of providing liquidity which is the case of market makers and highfrequency trading algorithms. If these participants detect that one institution is trying to place a massive trade, they can withdraw the liquidity in order to prevent being run over, that also has the effect of increasing slippage for the institution placing the massive trade since liquidity dries up and price movement becomes more volatile. In the case of anticipatory trading and liquidity vacuums, the institution trying to place the long position would suffer from unwanted slippage which can be catastrophic. It's also possible that both situations happen simultaneously. Some institutions try to anticipate the movement and some attempt to remove liquidity. This leads to something called liquidity shock which translates in a violent price expansion and bad execution. So in summary, the necessity of executing large trades is a problem that must be addressed by the institutions. The solution to avoid liquidity vacuums, anticipatory trading, and slippage is something called order splitting. In other words, an institution that wants to execute a massive trade will split this trade strategically over time to avoid drawing attention to it. This leads to a theory of how market phases such as accumulation, distribution, and trends are formed. Imagine that an institution wants to execute a large long position and to avoid the problems outlined previously. the institution only executes a fraction of the position first. By far, the best place for an institution to split its orders in the case of a long position is at the end of a downtrend in the beginning of an accumulation. The reason is because there is still supply left provided by the uninformed retail traders and institutions and price are maximally discounted. Imagine that the institution executes a part of the long position. As the market rises, supply starts to overcome demand and naturally prices begin to fall in the direction of the bottom of the range where the institution bought in the first place. Recall that the uninformed retail traders still think the downtrend is in effect. Once price is at the bottom of the range, the institution has a second chance of executing a portion of the trade at a discounted price. The institution can produce minor liquidity traps for the downside in order to increase their capacity to execute a larger portion of his long position. Notice that the smart money is always one step ahead of the uninformed traders. When uninformed traders are thinking the trend will continue to the downside, the smart money is already accumulating a long position. In the WOVF method, the end of the accumulation is marked by the ultimate liquidity trap, which is called spring. It's a movement that goes lower than the bottom of the range in a more significant way, inducing uninformed traders to think the market will fall in order to create more liquidity for the smart money to go along. So where does the idea of supply and demand enters this scenario? Institutions can continue to split orders when the trend is taking place, especially in the beginning of the trend. Assuming the institution is well informed, after the partial execution of orders, the market will produce an impulse movement to the upside. Naturally, as price rises, sellers begin to appear and when there is enough supply, a pullback begins. The institution still has the sole purpose of going long and executing the rest of that massive position. At the end of a pullback, the institution has another chance to execute part of the long position at a discounted price. that in turn will trigger the next impulse movement and so on. The capacity of institutions to get in at the demand zone is also influenced by the idea of liquidity inducement. If there are swing lows being triggered as the pullback occurs, the smart money has small bursts of liquidity created by retail sellers to execute its long position in stealth mode, so to speak. With that said, a trend cannot last forever. So the institutions need a way to get out of their position without drawing attention and causing problems of anticipatory trading, liquidity vacuums and slippage. The rationale is similar. In the same way that they split orders to get in, they will split orders to get out. As the uptrend progresses and approaches its termination, you'll begin to see signs of institutional supply near the highs, meaning that the pullbacks will start to become engineered rather than a natural consequence of overall supply increasing more than demand. That represents the offloading or distribution of the original long position which is now in massive profit. If an institution is not careful in offloading the position, the result can be catastrophic. Retail traders believe that institutions only make money, but that's not true. Institutions can and often do lose money quite significantly. If this delicate order splitting process goes wrong, it will most definitely end in tears. However, there is a problem in all of this. The market is not made up by just one institution that uses order splitting. The market is made up of many different trading institutions and they operate in different time frames and with different goals. The conclusion here is that this order splitting mechanics works across multiple scales and different time frames have influence on one another. But how can we keep track of the behavior of all the institutions? The fact that there are multiple institutions across various scales leads us to a concept outlined by Richard Wyov, the inventor of smart money concepts. The core concept is called composite operator. The composite operator is a fictional entity that represents the combined actions of large informed market participants such as institutional traders, market makers, and other types of smart money players. In the real world, there are many institutions and they often have different time frames and goals. However, the collective behavior of institutions leaves exploitable patterns in the charts. Wikov's idea was to treat all this institutional behavior as if it were one single entity, the composite operator, to make market logic more observable and tradable. Instead of trying to track every hedge fund, bank, and algorithm separately, which is impossible for a retail trader, Wackov teaches you to read the market as though you're following the intentions of a single dominant actor. This simplifies this process quite a lot, but it's not just a way of simplifying the process. It makes sense because the collective behavior of institutions forms exploitable patterns in the same way that the crowd of retail traders has a predictable herd mentality. To quote Richard Wikov, the composite operator does not act on impulse. He plans carefully, accumulates quietly, and distributes strategically. Notice that the fact that institutions can be too powerful creates the necessity to leave footprints in the chart and retail traders can take advantage of it. In that sense, their enormous power is also a type of weakness. The constant cat and mouse game played among institutions who leave footprints in the price chart and in the order flow. And that's where the retail traders can learn how to take advantage of it. You may think that this idea of the composite operator leads to the conclusion that the market is ran by a centralized entity or algorithm. But it's actually the exact opposite of that. The composite operator refers to a concept found in many other areas of life called emergent behavior. Emergent behavior is a phenomenon where complex organized patterns or behaviors arise from the interaction of simpler elements without any central coordination or control. It's very important that you realize that the unity of the composite operator does not mean there is centralized control in the market. On the contrary, there is no centralized control in the markets. Decentralization is an inherent feature of any market. So if you think that the market is ran by a single algorithm, you don't understand complexity, emergent behavior, and the logic behind any market. To illustrate this idea, it's useful to detect this phenomenon of emergent behavior in other relatable areas of life. Perhaps the best examples of emergent behavior in nature are bird flocking and human consciousness. Bird flocking refers to the highly coordinated movements of birds in groups such as murmurations of starings. These movements are often incredibly fluid and synchronized resembling a single organism. But the point is that no single bird is in charge. Each bird is simply reacting to the nearby bird, staying close to neighbors, avoiding collision and aligning direction. The collective behavior of all birds creates a monolithic pattern. Another great example is human consciousness. Consciousness is not found in any single neuron or brain region. Instead, it arises from the complex interactions among billions of neurons firing and forming patterns of activity. In other words, human consciousness forms a sense of unity, but there is no centralized control of consciousness. Just like the interaction of many neurons gives rise to human consciousness and bird flocking creates a monolithic pattern, the interaction of many training institutions gives rise to what WOV called the composite operator. In this sense, you can see the composite operator as the consciousness of the crowd of well-informed market participants. Now that you have a solid theoretical understanding of institutional supply and demand, let's move on to something more practical, which is the knowledge of how to spot these zones in the chart and filter out the low probability zones. So you can enhance your capacity to trade. We can define a demand zone as an area where the composite operator executed part of his large long position in the recent past and therefore it provides an opportunity to execute another part of that position at a discounted price when the market is trending. In the same way, we can define a supply zone as an area where the composite operator has executed part of its large short position in the recent past and therefore it provides an opportunity to execute another part of that position at a premium price during the formation of a trend. There are mainly two types of supply and demand zones. The reversal zones and the continuation zones. Let's study the reversal zones first. A reversal demand zone follows the format of a drop in price followed by a base which is some kind of small consolidation or momentary stop and finally an explosive movement out of the base represented by a rally. A reversal supply zone follows the format of a rally in price followed by a base and an explosive movement out of the base represented by a drop. One important detail here is that the base can sometimes be very subtle or narrow. It's not necessarily a long consolidation. Later, we'll see how the duration of the base impacts the reliability of the zones. Continuation zones are a little bit different. A continuation demand zone is formed by a rally base rally structure and a continuation supply zone is formed by a drop base drop structure. Some traders like to call the boundaries of supply and demand zones proximal and distal lines. In a demand zone, the distal line is on the bottom and the proximal line is on top. In a supply zone, it's the opposite. I think this nomenclature adds unnecessary confusion. It's perfectly fine to call the boundaries of the zones by what they are, the upper and lower limits. How you call these limits is irrelevant. The important thing is knowing how to identify them precisely. In order to identify supply and demand zones, we can follow a simple two-step process. Number one, identify a significant move. And number two, identify the base out of which the significant move was born. One of the characteristics of a significant move is the presence of candlesticks with high body percentage, meaning that the candle body occupies most of the candle range. This is a sign of certainty. On the other hand, it's common to find candles with low body percentage in a base. So, this is another detail you can pay attention to in this two-step process. If you're interested in learning more properties about the geometry of candlesticks, check out my course called Fractal Trading, Mastering Price Action and Beyond. As a simple example of this two-step process, in this chart, we can see a significant movement from number one to number two. Many of the candles in that movement have a high body percentage. The second step is to identify the base out of which the movement was born. Price forms a small range. Then it forms a liquidity trap for the sellers and then goes to the upside. The demand zone is where the small range was formed. We can see here that price eventually returns to this zone and continues to the upside. However, identifying the base out of which a significant move comes out is only a rough estimation for a supply or demand zone. We need more surgical and objective techniques. There are ways to draw zones based on a rough estimation and there are ways of drawing zones with extreme accuracy. The more precise a zone is and the closer to the stop the better its riskreward efficiency which is extremely important. Notice that riskreward efficiency is nonlinear. If we start from the 1:3 ratio and reduce the stop size by 50%. We get a 133% increase in riskreward ratio with all else maintained equal. With a 1:7 ratio, you can be wrong for the next seven trades and still break even. There are mainly two classes of techniques for drawing supply and demand zones with striking accuracy and objectivity. We have zones that are based on price action and zones that are based on order flow. It's also possible to find a common ground between price action and order flow which often provides very powerful zones. Let's begin with the zones based on price action first. The first technique to identify a supply or demand zone is called swing point range and it consists in highlighting the whole range of the candle that forms a significant swing high or low. For example, in this chart, we have a clear uptrend. So, we would be looking for demand zones. To use this technique, you identify the more significant swing lows, recalling that a swing low is a candle with a higher low to the left and to the right. Once you identify the candle that forms the swing low, you highlight the whole range of the candle. Here we can see an example of this. We detect a swing low and highlight the whole range of the candle that forms the swing low. By extending this demand zone to the right, we can see that it would have good accuracy. We can find another one of these zones right after that. There are variations of this technique. You can use different variations depending on your risk tolerance and your willingness to get into the trade. What I mean by this is that the closer you get to the swing point, the smaller your stop loss and therefore the lower your risk. However, at the same time, the closer you get to the swing point, the greater the risk of not getting filled simply because price might reverse before that. Within the swing point range technique, when we highlight the whole range of the candle forming the swing point, we have the high-risk version. The medium risk version ignores the upper shadow in a demand zone and the lower shadow in a supply zone. The low-risk version highlights just the lower shadow in a demand zone and just the upper shadow in a supply zone. One of the problems with zones, however, is precisely the fact that they are zones, not lines. So, there can be some hesitation or doubt about when to enter the trade exactly once price is within the zone. One method to solve this problem is to use the midpoint line. This increases the objectivity by highlighting one price level instead of a range of price levels. Let's observe some examples. In this chart, we have a swing high marked by the black arrow. By highlighting the high-risk swing point range, we get this zone. Notice, however, that the midpoint line would do a great job of increasing accuracy and objectivity. As we can see here, the lowrisk zone, which in the case of a supply zone is made of the upper shadow of the candle forming the swing point, would do an even better job. In this other chart, we have a swing high formed by a relatively wide range candle, which can pose a bit of a problem in this technique. If we highlight the whole range, we get a supply zone that is too wide. The midpoint line would mitigate some of the risk, and in this case, it worked with extreme accuracy. Another price actionbased technique for drawing accurate zones is to spot areas of fair value at the base that originates the zone in question. If you recall Style Meer's auction market theory, areas of fair value are ranging and areas of price discovery or unfair value are trending. The idea here is to capture the small range at the base. And there is a completely mechanical way of doing this. For a swing point to form, we need three candles and there's usually an overlap between these three candles. The fair value reversal zone exists in this overlap. For example, in this case, we have a swing low. The fair value zone sits in the area where all the three candles overlap as it is highlighted in green. For example, in this chart, we have a swing low marked by the black arrow. If we highlight the overlap between the three candles that form the swing point, we get this demand zone. Later, we can see how price reacts to the zone and then reverses to the upside. It's also possible to use the midpoint line technique in alignment with the fair value reversal zone if you want more objectivity. As we can see here, these are the two main methods to draw supply and demand zones based on price action alone. Let's now move on to the supply and demand zones based on orderflow. Orderflow refers to the mechanics of how price action is formed. It's what happens behind the curtains of price action, so to speak. Some people think they can read orderflow just by looking at price action, but that's incorrect. We need tools to see what price action cannot tell us. The first technique is similar to the swing point range, but instead of looking at the candle range, we'll look at the value area in the footprint of the candle that forms the swing point. Here we have once again a swing low marked by the black arrow. If we access the footprint of this candle and highlight only the value area, we get this zone. Later, we can see that price returns exactly to the upper limit of this area. Another very interesting orderflow technique to spot where the composite operator splits orders is the stacked imbalance. Stacked imbalances are specific areas in the footprint chart where the balance between supply and demand becomes heavily skewed to one side. These areas often serve as benchmarks for the composite operator in the future acting as reference points for potential re-entry or continuation of intent. For example, here we have a swing low marked by the black arrow. If we switch to the footprint chart, you'll see that right after the swing point, there is a large stacked imbalance in the ask, which is probably an area where the composite operator split orders. If we highlight the zone and move it to the right and then go back to the candlestick chart for more clarity, we see how accurate the zone is. just as a parenthesis. Notice how the stacked imbalance provides a more accurate zone in comparison to the fair value gap above it. Another orderflow technique to identify zones that are not obvious just by looking at price action is to plot a volume profile with 40% value area on the base you are looking for. This works better when the base has a clear consolidation form. For example, in this chart, we can see the formation of a larger consolidation which takes the form of a base. To define a demand zone in this case, using the volume profile, we plot the profile where the consolidation occurred like so. By extending the zone highlighted by the value area in the volume profile, we get this demand zone, which obviously worked extremely well in this case. In this technique, using the midpoint line is equivalent to extending the volume point of control like we can see here. The third orderflow technique is to observe the anchored VWOP. Institutions use the VWOP as a benchmark of execution. Meaning that executing trades at or slightly better than the VWOP line serves as a reference point to when and where the composite operator should split orders and therefore spark a new impulse movement. For example, in this chart, we see an uptrend and roughly in the middle, we see a pullback ending apparently at a previous base. But the problem is that price could have stopped in another small base below or in the more prominent base at the lowest low. One way of deciding which base you're going to trust is to use the anchored VWAP, which will usually be plotted in the most prominent swing point. In this case, it's the lowest low in the chart. Once the VWOP is plotted, everything becomes obvious. The pullback ends at the main view line because the composite operator sees this line as a benchmark of execution. If you want to learn more about real orderflow tools and many more amazing techniques you can use to trade with high probability, check my advanced orderflow trading course. We move on now to the concept of zone qualifiers. These are properties that should in theory enhance the reliability of supply and demand zones. So you can filter out the low probability zones. I said that it should theoretically enhance because in real charts you'll see high probability zones failing and low probability zones working sometimes which is perfectly normal since trading is a game of incomplete information. So keep in mind that these are general guidelines that agree with the standard theory of supply and demand trading not ironclad rules. The strength with which price action departures from the base is an indication of the strength of the composite operator. The stronger the departure, the more likely it is that it is a strong zone. This strength with which price departures from the base can be translated into a wide range candle, but it can also appear in the form of a stacked imbalance. For example, another qualifier is the base duration. If a base takes too long to form, it implies there is no urgency or there is lack of participation from the composite operator. So zones that come out of longer bases tend to have lower probability. A base with well-defined structure tends to have higher probability because order splitting is concentrated in a narrower and orderly space. A well- definfined structure means clear boundaries, orderly price action and a narrow vertical range. The location of the zone relative to significant support and resistance levels of various kinds. the trend and zones from higher time frames will impact the reliability of the zone. A zone with multiple elements supporting it tends to have a higher probability of holding in comparison to an isolated zone. Another qualifier is the concept of freshness. Zones that have never been tested before are considered fresh zones and therefore have a higher probability of holding. If you recall that institutional zones work because of the unfilled orders of the composite operator, this makes perfect sense. If a zone is tested before, a part of the unfilled orders might have been filled already. So there is less incentive for the zone to work in the future. The first touch of a fresh zone offers the highest probability of a strong reaction because that's when institutional resting orders are most likely to be intact. Another qualifier is the concept of originality. An original zone is created out of a drop or rally, meaning that it's not a response to a previous base. This represents an initiative movement on the part of the composite operator rather than a reactionary one. Non-original zones are a response to a previous base. Original zones theoretically have a higher probability of working because they represent the active participation of the composite operator in a specific level. It's important to observe the levels where greater liquidity exists near a zone. The reason is because these small liquidity pools might help the composite operator to initiate the next impulse movement. This is the idea of liquidity inducement. If there are swing points in the range and or the pullback, the composite operator has several chances to split orders. So, the presence of these levels increases the chances of a supply and demand zone working. Another qualifier is called institutional benchmarking. Trading institutions use the view up as a benchmark of execution, meaning that executing trades at or slightly better than the VWOP is advantageous. So when price is reacting to the VWAP from a significant price level, the zone that intersects with this level has a greater chance of holding because of the institutional benchmarking. In the standard application of supply and demand zones, it's important to scan for higher time frame zones that might interact or influence the zones in the home time frame. The logic is simple. For example, a 4hour zone can greatly influence a zone in the 15minut time frame. For instance, let's imagine that price responds to a higher time frame supply zone and goes in the direction of a smaller demand zone in the home time frame. As a result from that, the probability of the demand zone working is diminished because there are bigger institutions splitting orders on the supply side, so to speak. Another qualifier for supply and demand zones is the nesting property. Sometimes a smaller zone happens within a larger one, and that creates a zone with a higher probability of holding. This alludes to the principle of integration which is the intersection or confluence of techniques but within the supply and demand trading method. A final detail here is not exactly a qualifier but is something worth knowing which is the fact that supply and demand zones have similar qualities to support and resistance lines. That means that the supply and demand zones also have a switching quality. A demand zone that got violated can turn into a reliable supply zone and vice versa. So if you got stopped out in a zone, you may have a second chance to make a profitable trade right after. The process of confirming a zone is straightforward and it's similar to the way we can confirm any other important price level. There are two steps in a confirmation. Number one, observation of price reaction when it meets the zone. Price action will show signs that the zone is reliable once it encounters it. Things like prominent candle shadows are what you're after here. Number two, the presence of relevant orderflow elements to support the price reaction. Like we saw previously, the presence of orderflow elements such as stacked imbalances, value areas in the volume profile and or the footprint and the intersection with the anchored view are all ways of confirming a zone with orderflow tools. Let's now observe some additional examples where we combine all this information. In this first example, we're going to see an instance of nested zones where one zone switches and provides a good long trade opportunity. In red, I marked this swing point range to determine a supply zone. A couple of details here are that the candle that forms the swing point is wide, which translates into a wider zone. Here we can see that the supplying zone fails and there were clues that the zone was going to fail. Notice that there is no significant strength in the departure from the base because the strongest bearish candle is in the base. One problem here is that the departure from the supply zone is exactly where a significant demand zone from the past is as it is highlighted in green. It's clear that there is a hierarchy of power between these zones. The green one sparked the more significant upward price movement while the supply zone is actually a minor one. We see that this supply immediately fails as a result from the major demand zone on the left. Point of this example is to demonstrate the hierarchy between zones and the switching quality of the zones as well. Once the supply zone is invalidated, it turns into a demand zone. Notice that in the upper limit of the zone that switched, we can find another small base that also serves as a demand zone. This represents the nesting of two different zones, which is something that will increase the probability of success. It's very clear here that price respects the nested demand zone area. It tests it several times and then eventually sparks a new upward price movement. In this other example, we have a demand zone that comes out of a wide range bullish candle after a gap down. Notice that in this case, the base structure is very well defined since it's made of just one candle. That also means that base duration is very small, which is a good zone qualifier. However, we do see this zone was tested once, meaning that it's not fresh anymore, and in the second touch, it ended up working. This is why you can't consider the zone qualifiers as hard rules. This is a relatively wide zone. So, one of the things we can do here is change the drawing method. If we draw the zone based on a fair value range, meaning the overlap between the three candles forming the swing point, we get this zone. In this case, the overlap exists only between the swing point candle and the candle on the right because the candle on the left is separated by a gap. The resulting fair value range dramatically enhances the accuracy of the zone. The first touch of the zone when it was still fresh happens to the tick in the upper limit of the zone or proximal line if you will. The second touch of the zone happens to the tick in the lower limit of the zone or distal line. From an orderflow perspective, we have some interesting details as well. By plotting the anchored VWOP in the swing low, we immediately see how the first touch reacts to the main VWAP line and the second touch reacts to the two sigma line. Both are key levels for institutional benchmarking. From the footprint perspective, we have a subtle detail that intersects with the analysis we already have. This chart shows two sequential high volume nodes in the footprint which are the levels within a candle where the greatest volume occurred. Similarly to the volume point of control in the volume profile, this narrow zone sits at the upper limit or proximal line of the demand zone based on the fair value range of the swing point. We have an enormous stacked imbalance in the ask of the candle that forms the swing point. But notice how the institutional benchmarking of the VWAP doesn't let price action get that low. The main point of this example is that the best zone is not really about this qualifier where that drawing technique. It's about finding the place in the chart where the greatest number of techniques intersect. That's the bottom line, not only of supply and demand trading, but technical analysis as a whole. In this final example, we're going to go back to the freshness property and how this can help you judge whether a zone will hold or not. Roughly in the middle of the chart, we can see a demand zone coming out of a base with short duration and well- definfined structure. The method of drawing is the simplest swing point range. A few candles later, we see the zone being tested, meaning that this is not a fresh zone anymore. Later, when price comes back to this zone, it is unable to hold price action. The reason goes back to what was said earlier about zone freshness and order splitting. When a zone is tested, the composite operator has a chance to split orders and therefore this reduces the number of unfilled orders the next time the zone is tested. In this example, we see price disrespecting the non-fresh zone and going straight to the more prominent demand zone coming out of the lowest low in the chart, which is indeed a fresh zone. And it worked remarkably well. As you can see here, hopefully this video gives you a better understanding of institutional supply and demand zones. If you want to learn more advanced trading ideas, I offer several courses and ebooks. You can check them out in my website fractalflowpro.com or you can send me an email at supportfrflowpro.com. If you want to support the ongoing creation of videos like this one, please click the like button, subscribe to the channel, activate the notifications, leave your feedback below in the comment section, and share this video with your trading community. Thank you very much for watching, and I hope to see you in the next videos. Take care.
