Master MARKET STRUCTURE in Less than 40 Minutes!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CAT0lXOc6LM

Welcome to the ultimate guide to market structure. In this video, you will gain access to elite level knowledge about several market structure concepts from the basic to the advanced level. You're also going to learn what other channels simply don't tell you about market structure. In this video, we're going to talk about swing points, market states, change of character, different types of market structure shift, range and pullback, fractals, fractal dimension and multiffrals, valid pullbacks, different types of breakup structure, sloped structure, and its relation with latent liquidity. And we're also going to talk about some of the problems of price action and order flow that end up disrupting the smart money concepts you learn on YouTube. We're also going to see examples in real price charts throughout the presentation. This will provide you with a sophisticated and realistic point of view of the market. If you wish to support the channel, please leave a like, subscribe, comment, and share if you haven't already. That makes a huge difference for the channel. Without further ado, let's begin. So what is market structure exactly? Market structure refers to the underlying logic that governs how price action unfolds over time. When we look at a price chart, we often experience a dual perception. On one hand, the movements seem chaotic and unpredictable. On the other hand, there's an undeniable sense of structure and repetition beneath the surface. Market structure concepts aim to reveal the hidden order within this apparent chaos that allows traders to interpret price action through a more organized and meaningful lens. There are two main fundamental building blocks of market structure. Market extremes, meaning highs and lows, and the location of price action in relation to previous market extremes. Let's first define market extremes more objectively. Highs and lows, also referred to as swing highs and swing lows, can be objectively defined. A swing high occurs when a candle has a lower high to the left and a lower high to the right. A swing low occurs when a candle has a higher low to the left and a higher low to the right. Another way of understanding market extremes is through Bill Williams definition of fractals. A fractal high is the candle with the highest high among an odd number of candles, usually three or five. A fractal low is the candle with the lowest low among an odd number of candles, usually three or five. The important thing about this is that when a swing or fractal is formed, we have a potential reversal because all significant price reversals are swings or fractals. But of course, not all swings or fractals are significant price reversals. Let's observe a simple example of how this concept works in the charts. In this chart, we can see that the current candle forms a lower low in relation to the previous, meaning that there is a higher low to its left. In the next candle, a higher low is formed, transforming this low into a confirmed swing low or Williams fractal. Over the next candles, we can see that price action rises significantly, demonstrating how this concept can anticipate a significant reversal. On the current price action, we have the same pattern again, but now on the opposite side, a candle with a lower high to the left and to the right, rendering it as a swing high or Williams fractal. That indeed anticipates the beginning of the retracement. Please keep in mind that this concept by itself will generate many false signals. So it must be contextualized with other smart money concepts in order to frame a high quality trade opportunity. Within this well- formulated context, this concept can actually become very powerful. Building on top of swings or fractals, we have the idea of major and minor swings or fractals. A major swing or fractal happens when we take the basic definition of swing or fractal and overlay it on top of itself. So a major swing high happens when a swing high has a lower swing high to the left and to the right. The minor swing high on the right is often an early indication of a significant reversal to the downside. A major swing low happens when a swing low has a higher swing low to the left and to the right. The minor swing low on the right is often an indication of a more significant reversal. For example, in this chart, we have a major swing low or fractal because there is a higher minor swing low to the left and price just formed a higher minor swing low to the right. In this next chart, we can see that the market went significantly to the upside right after that. Once we understand what highs and lows are and how to measure them objectively, we can move on to the knowledge of how to categorize the progression of market extremes. The market has two main states, trending and ranging. An uptrend is characterized by higher highs and higher lows, and a downtrend is characterized by lower highs and lower lows. A sideways market is characterized by flat highs and lows, also referred to as equal highs and lows. Since the market has different states and specific ways of trading each state, it's important that we analyze the transition between states. In the classic smart money method, the situation where the market changes from one state to another is called change of character. meaning from a trend to a range, from range to trend, or from trend to opposite trend. It's important to highlight the fact that price doesn't necessarily oscillate between range and trend. Sometimes simply changes trend abruptly. A market can produce a change of character with or without the presence of market structure shifts. But before we learn that, we need a few other concepts. When we look at two opposing market movements, it's useful to classify them into range and pullback. In an uptrend, the range is to the upside and the pullback is to the downside. Generally speaking, the pullback is always smaller than the range when the market is trending. When the market is ranging, the range and pullback are roughly the same size. So, this definition of range and pullback loses its meaning. It's clear that highquality trade opportunities have one thing in common. They are born from valid pullbacks. There are four criteria to identify valid pullbacks. Number one, a valid pullback must occur within an established trend. That increases the chance that the pullback will not violate the previous strong market extreme. Number two, a valid pullback gives explicit and implicit signs that it will in fact respect the main trend. Explicit signs are those that can be seen through price action alone, such as the obvious deceleration of price as the pullback approaches its end. Implicit signs are those that cannot be seen through price action alone. So things like orderflow patterns and momentum fall into this category. Number three, a valid pullback also provides explicit and implicit signs of initiation after it has shown signs that it will respect the trend structure. For example, if we see price action and order flow elements in the direction of the trend after we see signs of deceleration of the pullback. Number four, last but not least, a valid pullback occurs in an area of interest, meaning a place near the strong structure. The reason this is important is because we need to minimize risk and maximize reward using logical stop-loss orders. In other words, deeper pullbacks tend to be more reliable because of their riskmanagement profile. A lot of the times you'll see shallow pullbacks work as well, but that can lead you to the behavioral pitfall of trying to enter the market too soon and too far from structure. The safest approach is to wait for a valid pullback with all these four qualities and just trade those. You can get away with trading shallow pullbacks if you pay close attention to the major and minor flows simultaneously and very carefully, but that should only be done by experienced traders. We move on now to the idea of breakoff structure and strong and weak highs and lows. Whenever the market breaks a previous extreme, we have a breakoff structure. The reason this is important is because a break of structure renders the origin of the movement that broke structure as a strong market extreme and the market extreme that got broken as a weak market extreme. The reason we care about strong market extremes is that there is a higher chance that they will not be violated and therefore they can be used as safer places to put stop- losses. We usually consider supply and demand zones that come out of strong market extremes simply because they are more reliable than the ones coming out of weak market extremes. In an uptrend, the highs are considered weak structure. So when price breaks those highs, we have a break of weak structure. Some people think this is a liquidity sweep. But the problem with that is that not every time price breaks a weak structure, we have the smart money trying to use liquidity as a mean to get in the opposite direction. Like I said in my video about liquidity concept, the market doesn't follow liquidity, it follows value. And value means different things to different market players at different times. However, if the market is in an uptrend and price breaks a strong low, we have a break of strong structure which is a more significant event. This also renders the high that originated the movement as a strong structure. This event is usually characterized as a market structure shift simply because it shows a shift in control between market players. Given this initial condition, let's decipher the different types of market structure shift. A market structure shift happens when price violates a market extreme that shouldn't be violated in theory. In an uptrend that happens when the market violates a low and in a downtrend that happens when the market violates a high. There are two variations of this. The market structure shift from break of strong structure and the market structure shift from break of weak structure. In the first case, we have a market structure shift that results from a break of strong structure. For example, in an uptrend, price will make a higher high rendering the previous low as strong. and then price proceeds to break this low. This is a strong form of market structure shift because it breaks strong structure. That doesn't necessarily mean that buyers were led to the upside by the smart sellers. Sometimes the market simply reaches an exhaustion point because it cannot continue in a trend forever. In the second case, we have a market structure shift that results from a break of weak structure. Using the example of an uptrend again price will fail to make a higher high and then break the previous low which was weak structure. This usually represents a smooth transition of power between buyers and sellers. A market structure shift can mean a reversal but it can also lead to subsequent traps, meaning subsequent market structure shifts. Many smart money traders think that market structure shift is the greatest pattern of all. But the reality is that this pattern can easily fool you like any other pattern. For example, it's not uncommon to see sequential market structure shifts which will mislead you into the wrong side of the market. Now that we have an idea of what a market structure shift and change of character are, we need some information on their relationship. It's certainly possible to have a change of character without a market structure shift. For example, price might be in an uptrend and then smoothly transitions into a sideways market without breaking structure. We can also have sequential market structure shifts that will mislead traders. When we talk about the transition between trends, there will always be a market structure shift of some sort with one exception, which is when the market produces a climatic reversal. A climatic reversal is marked by a clean accelerated movement to one side followed by a clean accelerated movement to the other side. There's usually no development of structure that will help you anticipate the significant reversal. The perception of the reversal will occur in a lower scale. So you must pay attention to the candlesticks more closely. This knowledge of trends, breakoff structure, strong and weak extremes, change of character and market structure shifts is all logical and quite simple. But a real price chart is more complicated than that. The reason for this is because price action is fractal, meaning that these patterns happen within one another. So within the range and the pullback, we can usually detect two opposing trends. And in the transition between the range and pullback, we can see one of the types of market structure shift, but in a smaller scale. This is incredibly helpful to detect more precise entries and higher probability trades. We can also keep track of more than two degrees of market structure from the broad price movements to the highs and lows that are almost buried in the candlesticks. Notice that when we analyze the market keeping track of two different degrees of highs and lows, the movements get more chaotic. Once we have a range and pullback with two different degrees, we can detect what is called swing structure which is the major structure outside the range and pullback and substructure which is the minor structure movements inside the range at pullback. Swing structure or major structure helps in determining the trend and locating good places for stop-loss orders. Substructure is helpful for detecting minor market structure shifts and what is called liquidity inducement which is just a new perspective of an old pattern called trap. But that is a topic for another video. It's useful to understand the market assuming that highs and lows always have roughly the same size. But the real market is not that simple. When we understand that markets are fractal, this leads us to the perception of what is called fractal dimension. You can think about fractal dimension as the degree of chaos or degree of roughness of market structure. In low fractal dimension, price action looks smooth and predictable. In high fractal dimension, price action looks rough and chaotic and therefore less predictable. This leads us to the idea of multiffracts, which is the idea that fractal dimension changes over time. In other words, price action is an object with variable fractal dimension. If you want to understand how you can use the knowledge of fractals to your advantage, please check out my course called fractal trading, mastering price action and beyond. Multiffraractal market structure looks something like this. the alternation of periods with low and high fractal dimension. It's easy to see how this representation is a much more realistic picture of the real market. Just out of curiosity, the term fractal comes from the Latin fractus, which means broken or fractured. The fact that price action is multifractal creates a lot of problems for this common knowledge of market structure, such as market structure shifts, changes of character, and so on. This is essentially why sometimes these ideas of market structure simply fail. It's not necessarily because you haven't learned the right things yet. Menel brought the French mathematician regarded as the father of fractal geometry proposed something called the multiffractal market hypothesis as an alternative to the commonly accepted efficient market hypothesis. Medro states that markets are multiffractal due to the diversity of market players, time horizons, and the presence of feedback loops, which is a more realistic view of financial turbulence. And brought wrote an amazing book called the misbehavior of markets. I highly suggest you read it if you have interest in financial markets and fractals. The people who teach smart money concepts usually preach that you should keep track of different time frames because structure from higher time frames will have a greater effect on the structure of the home time frame. While that holds some truth, the reality is that structure in any time frame can fail and the additional effort of keeping track of different time frames seems not worth the benefit in the end. Beyond that, you will find a lot of instances where minor structure wins over major structure. Most discussions around market structure, liquidity, and supply and demand focus exclusively on price action. But this is only part of the story. To better understand the market, we must also examine order flow, which is the underlying mechanics of price movement. Some smart money traders dismiss traditional orderflow tools, arguing that a significant portion of trading volume such as dark pool and over-the-counter transactions is hidden from public view and therefore distorts the public data. While this criticism holds some truth, it overlooks a critical point. Price action is also distorted. Although off exchange trades do ultimately influence price, they often reflect non-speculative behavior like hedging or arbitrageing that doesn't follow the familiar logic of buying low and selling high. As a result, these trades can obscure the meaning of price action and therefore market structure just as much as off exchange volume distorts public order flow. Price action and order flow are incomplete in isolation. The key is not to discard one over the other but to understand the limitations of both and use them in complimentary ways. With the limitations of price action and order flow in mind, we must look into the classic order flow tools such as title meers market profile, the volume profile, the footprint, the cumulative volume delta, VWAP and anchored VWAP for example. It's not perfect information just like price action also isn't but it's important nonetheless. It's self-evidently important when we realize that classic orderflow tools are common among institutional speculators. In fact, these tools were born in the institutional domain. Another way of looking at this is that time is regarded as an important factor by smart money traders. But there is a high correlation between time and volume in the markets as it is outlined by Style Meer's market profile approach. If you want to learn more about orderflow, I have a free video here in the channel where I go deeper into the techniques and limitations of this approach. It's important that you understand the mode of behavior of the main three types of players in the market. That way you can have a better idea of why the knowledge of market structure is limited and you can get closer to the real meaning of smart money. There are mainly three types of market players. Speculators, arbitrageers, and hedgers. The speculator is the market participant who aims to buy low and sell high. Most retail traders are speculators, but of course there are institutional speculators as well. A speculator profits from the directionality of price movement. Retail traders are usually not aware of how that's not the only possibility for profit in the market. But the knowledge of the other two types of market players makes that clear. An arbitrageer is a market player that aims to profit by exploiting the relationship between two or more markets. This usually involves buying one market while simultaneously selling another market to form one trade. Let's imagine that an arbitrageer bought market A and sold market B. The arbitrageers's profit comes from the relationship between A and B. So for example, if market A rises more than what market B rises, there will be a profit. The profit in market A supersedes the loss in market B. So even though the arbitrageer sold market B and it went up, there is a profit. That will obscure price action and order flow notions to some degree because the motive for profit is not grounded on the common speculative notion of buying low and selling high. The main point here is that an arbitrageer doesn't trade a market with directional intent, but the activity of arbitrageers is reflected in price action and order flow. In fact, arbitrage is a very common practice among large institutional players. So, this interference in the buy low, sell high logic of speculation is quite significant. Different markets provide different types of arbitrage opportunities. For example, in futures there's what's called cash and carry arbitrage. In forex there is triangular arbitrage. And in stocks, the use of statistical arbitrage is common due to the vast landscape of opportunities. If you have interest in arbitrage, I have an ebook about statistical arbitrage, which is based on a Nobel Prize winning concept called co-integration. Statistical arbitrage is widely used by institutions, but retail traders can also use it. Another market participant that distorts the common logic of buy low, sell high is the hedger. Retail traders are usually not aware that hedgers are the highest tribe of smart money since they have access to primary information about the market and they are often large multinational companies with a lot of capital power. A large bank can also operate as a hedger to offset credit risk. A hedger uses the financial market as insurance not as a mean of speculation. Their activity will be reflected in price action but in a way that distorts the speculative notions of buying low and selling high that retail traders follow. One example in the context of a large bank is something called delta hedging. A bank will use a combination of derivatives and the underlying asset to hedge the directional risk of the market. The point you need to understand about this is that such operation involves the purchase of call options while simultaneously short selling the underlying asset. Similarly to an arbitrageer, the hedger does not necessarily want to buy low and sell high because he is delta neutral. He's trading the volatility of the market and can make money independently of market direction. So, if you see a lot of selling taking place in the price chart, it's not necessarily because the smart money is trying to absorb buyers or trying to deceptively induce sellers to the downside. It might be a hedger using the underlying instrument to become delta neutral. If you want to know exactly how that works, I have a video in the channel demonstrating that step by step. Another important point is that this argument that the smart money requires the liquidity provided by retail traders is only partly true. One type of smart money that bases its actions on speculation will do that. But there are other types of smart money that simply don't require the liquidity provided by retail traders because they have the liquidity of over-the-counter markets, for example, which is much higher and has nothing to do with the price chart. Another example of smart money entity that operates in the hedging paradigm are large multinational companies. For example, airlines use vast amounts of jet fuel which is derived from crude oil. If oil prices rise unexpectedly, it increases their operating costs significantly. To protect against this, airlines often hedge their future fuel expenses by buying oil future contracts, for example. The logic is that if oil prices go back up, the airline will be paying more at the pump, but their long futures position will gain value, offsetting that increase in cost. So, if we see buying activity while price is falling, for example, it's not necessarily because the smart money is trying to observe the retail sellers because they need liquidity, although sometimes that's true. For this precise reason, the idea that price follows liquidity all the time is a myth. Price follows value, but value means different things to different market participants. Value for a speculator is different from value in the eyes of an arbitrageer or hedger. Notice that a hedger will buy or sell based on primary information. They could not care less about retail traders and the price chart. The good news is that we can track the activity of the hedggers using something like the commitment of traders report which will provide insight into what the highest tribe of smart money is doing. Information that simply cannot be obtained through a price chart no matter how much you learn about price action and market structure. In summary, trading cannot be a perfectly mechanical game. The diversity of market players prevents that from happening. So you must understand that no matter how much you learn about this, uncertainty will never go away and there are many things that simply cannot be understood by looking at a price chart or order flow for that matter. Price action and order flow are market generated information. They are not information that generates the market. In other words, price action and order flow are the effects, not the causes. With that said, let's talk about an additional concept. All the notions of market structure you learn in other channels focus on leveled markets. The angle of market structure will alter the perception of trends, ranges, and the shift between them. But that can only be perceived through trend lines rather than swing highs and lows in isolation. In my last video about liquidity concepts, I outlined how latent retail liquidity can come from any sort of widely used technique. Not just from the breakout of obvious highs and lows in the chart. Trend lines are one of these sources of latent retail liquidity. They are among the most widely used trading techniques. If you only pay attention to swing highs and lows in isolation, sometimes market structure will simply not make sense or seem too deceptive. For example, if we only pay attention to the highs and lows in a situation like this, it can be hard to understand why the strong structure failed. But if we analyze price action in relation to established trend lines, it can make sense. For instance, price fails to reach the upper trend line or channel that is analogous to price failing to break a previous high. Then price breaks the lower channel to the downside. But if we look at price action, it can seem like the strong structure will still hold. Price comes back to test the lower trend line as resistance. Now, and if you are just looking at price action, that movement might seem like an initiation to the upside. With the understanding of trend lines, which are another source of latent liquidity, it becomes clearer that the market is shifting to the downside. This is just one example. There are many variations of this. Recall that there are more sources of latent liquidity beyond obvious highs and lows. Any widely used trading technique like simple trend lines can have the same effect. Let's now observe a couple of examples using the market structure concepts outlined in this video. Let's take a look at one example involving different market structure concepts that were outlined in this video extending to other important areas of smart money trading tactics such as supply and demand trading order flow and liquidity concepts. In this chart we have the 1 hour S&amp;P 500. Here we can see one type of market structure shift already. Notice how price went down significantly and started to retrace back up forming a swing high. After that price starts to go down but it fails to produce a lower low. Therefore failing to render the swing high as a strong high. After the failure we see price closing above the weak high. In other words we have a break of weak structure which in this context transforms the failure into a strong low. This represents a shift in the behavior of buyers and sellers where buyers assumed control. In moments like this, it's useful to look at the footprint chart so we can have a better idea of where buyers produce the greatest level of activity. This is the footprint of the whole price movement. And here we can notice something interesting. Near the strong low, we have a massive stacked imbalance in the ask which represents buying aggression in the order flow. And we have price action above that which is a sign of buying initiation. In the next candle, we have a smaller stacked imbalance, but now in the bid and price closing above that. This is a sign of sellers being absorbed by buyers. If we mark the intersection between these two opposing stacked imbalances, we have this small zone. This is one of the ways of deriving a demand zone based on footprint activity. Notice how the zone which is precisely drawn is not obvious just by looking at price. We need the footprint to see it. By advancing the chart, we see how price action returns to that small demand zone and goes significantly to the upside. That retracement to the demand zone creates a swing low that eventually becomes a strong low once price creates a break of weak structure to the upside again. As we can see here, looking at the footprint of the retracement candle, we see new information. A stacked imbalance in the ask that happens near the low of the candle. Another sign of buying initiation. Marking this on the candle chart, we get this. Still in this upward price movement, we can see now the formation of a weak low because price cannot close above the last high. This is what new traders would call a liquidity grab. While older traders would call a bull trap, it's the same idea. However, keep in mind what we learned previously. Not every pattern like this has predatory purposes. Once price fails to close above the last high, it's now headed to the downside. Ideally, you want to see price coming back to the demand zones near the strong lows. In this next chart, we can see an interesting development. Price comes back to the footprintbased demand zones and creates a market structure shift in a smaller degree, meaning a lower low followed by a higher high. We could investigate the current footprint to look for fresher demand zones, but let's use the ones we already have since this is a video about market structure. It's at this point that other trading techniques might provide additional confirmation. For instance, we can see a simple trend line that intersects with the area. We can also use a pitchfork to try and catch what is called a close to the bone setup in the median line method. In this next chart, we can see the result. Price comes back to the demand area of the minor market structure shift which coincides with previous demand areas derived from the footprint that came out of strong lows. The pitchfork and trend line work as auxiliary tools that confirm the detection of a market edge. An additional detail here is an anchored VWAP plotted in the lowest low of the chart. The low of the minor market structure shift happens at the two sigma line of the VWAP. This indicator is very commonly used in the institutional domain because it serves as a benchmark of execution. Let's study another example of market structure aligned with order flow analysis and some notions of fractnal analysis as well. Here we have the S&amp;P 500 1 hour time frame. Once again, notice that we have the progression of lower highs and lower lows on the upper half of the chart. And on the lower half, we see price action accelerate towards what appears to be a climatic reversal pattern, also known as a Vbottom. Using the insights from fractal analysis, price begins to transition to a lower fractal dimension as it goes down into the climatic pattern. Recall that price action is multiffran that its fractal dimension changes over time. If we look at the footprint of the current candle, we'll see that it displayed selling initiation patterns and negative delta, which is what you would expect from a candle like this. We see price closing below two single imbalances and one stacked imbalance in the bid, which is the classic selling initiation pattern. By moving one candle into the future, the scenario changes a little bit. But this change can only be detected by someone observing real order flow tools like the footprint. Price action doesn't tell the full story. When traders see a candle like this forming, they will immediately assume based on common knowledge of basic price action that there is selling pressure given the prominent upper shadow. However, the footprint tells us a completely different story. We have a bearish candle with positive delta, meaning that there was more bullish volume than bearish volume, which is not expected in a bearish candle. Beyond that, we see price closing just above a stacked imbalance in the ask, which is a buying initiation pattern, working in tandem with the delta divergence. In other words, this counterpoint between price action and order flow tells us that the climatic reversal is reaching its final moment and the market is about to reverse. That doesn't mean you should go long at this point. More evidence is needed. In the next candle, we have a clear scenario. Price produces a wide range bullish candle and the footprint shows us that price closed above two significant stacked imbalances and two single imbalances in the ask. A very strong bullish signal. Volume delta is positive as it would be expected in a candle like this. The whole point of this example is that in a scenario contextualized by a climatic reversal in lower fractal dimension, the focused analysis of the counterpoint between price and footprint makes sense and we can use that to trigger high probability trades. After the scandal, it's clear that buyers have assumed control and there is not bearish structure nearby to stop it. In this next chart, we can see how that was indeed the genesis of an uptrend. Once again, the information provided by market structure is contextualized by the information provided by orderflow and those two function within the framework of reto analysis. Hopefully, this video gives you a better understanding of market structure. If you want to learn more advanced trading ideas, I offer several courses and ebooks. You can check them out in my website fractalflowpro.com or you can send me an email at supportfrlflowpro.com. If you want to support the ongoing creation of videos like this one, please click the like button, subscribe to the channel, activate the notifications, leave your feedback below in the comment section, and share this video with your trading community. Thank you very much for watching, and I hope to see you in the next videos. Take care.
