Master LIQUIDITY CONCEPTS in 30 Minutes!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9LzmoP2DJ4I

Welcome to the ultimate guide to liquidity concepts. In this video, you're going to have access to elite level knowledge about liquidity and how it's used by the smart money. We'll start with the reason liquidity is so important, what liquidity actually is, the different types of liquidity, the geometry of supply and demand, market makers, and liquidity. How it affects price movements, how the smart money uses it to profit, and how you can use it to profit as well. If you want to support the ongoing creation of highquality videos like this one, please click the like button, subscribe, activate notifications, leave a comment, and share this video with your trading community. That helps the channel tremendously. Let's now jump right into liquidity concepts. So, why is liquidity important? Liquidity is the fuel for the smart money to drive the market in specific situations. One important thing you need to understand is that it's not like the smart money manipulates the retail herd because it's an easy thing to do. They need the liquidity provided by retail traders in order to profit. So the smart money uses liquidity as a tool to profit and the retail traders mostly provide this liquidity due to the unawareness of how the smart money operates. If you don't understand how liquidity works, you are merely going to provide it at the expense of your capital instead of taking advantage of it. So, it's critical that you learn about it. But what is liquidity after all? Nowadays, there are a lot of people talking about liquidity without actually knowing what it means. And that creates a lot of confusion later in the process. Liquidity is not a destination in the price chart. It's a mean or a tool for the smart money to move the market strategically. It's an essential gear in the smart money machine, so to speak. But it's not exclusive to the smart money. Any market participant needs liquidity. When you place a long trade, there must be someone else on the other side willing to sell it to you at the same price. Liquidity exists because market participants have different perceptions of the market. That means someone is willing to sell what someone else is willing to buy at the same price. This would not happen if price perfectly reflected value. In other words, liquidity is a byproduct of disagreement in the market. The existence of liquidity disproves the strong form of the efficient market hypothesis. Because if all known information were perfectly reflected in price, there would be no reason for buyers and sellers to disagree and thus no reason for liquidity to exist. Some traders believe that the market follows liquidity, but that's incorrect. The market follows value. Liquidity is the mean through which that happens. very much like a swimmer doesn't swim towards water, he swims through water. The reason some traders think that is because they are unaware of the fact that the battle between retail traders and smart money is not the only battle being reflected in the price chart. They assume that liquidity is the magnet pulling price without realizing that the chart reflects multiple layers of conflict, not just smart money versus retail. The formal definition of liquidity is that it is the ease with which a market can be traded without causing significant changes in price. It's the ability to trade without slippage. In other words, liquidity is a quality of the market, not a location in the price chart. The level of liquidity will affect how much trading activity will occur within a given price range. So, how does liquidity affect price movements? To fully understand how liquidity affects price movement, we need a visual representation of what is called the depth of market, also called the DOM. The depth of market will show the total number of contracts, shares or lots in the form of limit orders above and below the current price. The size of the horizontal bars is proportional to the depth of the market. Here we need a few ideas to understand the mechanics of how price goes up and down. The orders you see in the depth of market are only limit orders. So above the current price we have the sell limit orders in the ask column and below the current price we have the buy limit orders in the bid column. Limit orders are passive because they don't initiate price movement. What in fact initiate price movements are market orders and because of that they are considered aggressive. Another crucial concept here is that a market order must always match a limit order. So let's say for example that buyers want to trade. They will place market orders that match the lowest ask price until all those limit orders are consumed. When that happens, the next level above will start to be consumed. The main lesson you need to grasp here is that the lower the number of orders in a price level, the less trading activity is required to consume that level and move on to the next. So, for example, in this illustration, there are only 26 contracts in the lowest ask price level. Buyers only need 26 contracts executed through market orders to consume that level and make price rise to the next level. A small number of contracts, shares or lots represents shallow market depth, translating into a low liquidity environment. Shallow market depth represents low liquidity because a market player doesn't require a lot of aggression to move price significantly. He can consume a wider price range more easily. A big number of contracts, shares, or lots represents a deep market translating into a high liquidity environment. A deep market represents high liquidity because a market player requires a lot of aggression to move price significantly. A lot of trading activity causes a small price movement in that case. This intuition is absolutely critical for you to understand how the smart money operates and how important liquidity is for the market infrastructure. Going back to the formal definition, liquidity as a broad term is the ease with which a market can be traded without causing significant changes in price. Period. That should be crystal clear to you before we continue. With that said, there are different types of liquidity you should know about. Liquidity can be classified as active, passive, retail, institutional, hidden, fake, and latent. Let's first differentiate between active and passive liquidity. Passive liquidity is represented by the limit orders you see in the order book or depth of market. It's passive because it doesn't initiate price movement. It wastes to be consumed by market orders. Market orders which do initiate price movements are considered to be active liquidity. They attack the passive liquidity from limit orders so to speak. Liquidity can come from the retail side or from the institutional side. For example, the limit orders you see in the order book or DOM are an aggregation of limit orders coming from retail traders and from institutional traders. The same happens with active liquidity. There are market orders that come from retail traders and market orders that come from institutional traders. So both retail and institutional liquidity can be active and passive. The DOM most traders are used to is level two DOM where limit orders are aggregated. In level three DOM, there can be differentiation between sources of liquidity. With access to level three data, you're not just seeing how much liquidity is at each price. You're seeing who is placing it. Hidden liquidity is a type of institutional liquidity which can be active or passive. Passive hidden liquidity is the one coming from what are called iceberg orders, which are limit orders that only appear partially in the order book or dump so they don't draw the attention of other market participants. Active hidden liquidity is when an institution executes a large trade through a dark pool. This order will not be reflected in the public order flow, but it will affect price action. Another type of passive institutional liquidity is fake liquidity, which is characterized by something called spoofing. Spoofing occurs when an institution plays a large limit order without the intention of actually executing it. The goal is to change the perception of other market participants watching the depth of market. This is usually a battle between institutional players. Retail traders just get caught in the middle of it. An important type of liquidity for you to learn how to trade is what is called latent liquidity. Latent liquidity is a type of active retail liquidity and it is characterized by stop orders. Stop orders are held by the broker until the market reaches that level. Then it's immediately transformed into a market order and it will emerge in the public order flow. Previously I said that liquidity is the fuel for the smart money. Now we can state more precisely that the type of liquidity that fuse the battle between smart money and retail traders is latent liquidity. The reason we are studying these different types of liquidity is for you to realize that there are other battles going on in the market beyond the smart money versus retail traders. The market is not just a binary battlefield between smart money and retail traders. It's a multi-layered arena where institutions, algorithms, market makers, retail traders, commercial traders, and even governments play competing games, each with their own goals, strategies, and time frames. The tricky thing about this is that all of these battles take place in the same arena. In other words, time frames and market players coexist, interact, and intersect. However, that's a more complex subject for another time. So, where does liquidity come from exactly? Liquidity can come from any market participant. When you place a trade, you might be interacting with another retail trader, a whale, a market maker, a hedge fund, and even a large bank. However, the market makers are the participant who have a liquidity provision role. In technical analysis, a market maker is analogous to an entity that can manipulate price in the same way a large speculator would, which is only partly true. Market makers can nudge and absorb price movement, but in a different way compared to a large speculator. A large speculator willing to manipulate price requires liquidity to operate, but market makers create liquidity. The issue is that market makers can also tilt the order flow to one of the sides in specific situations. So not only they can provide liquidity but they can remove it or skew it. To grasp that it's useful to understand the geometry of liquidity. One very useful way of understanding what market makers actually do is to visualize their role using simple supply and demand curves. In this graph, we have price in the vertical axis and quantity in the horizontal axis. The demand curve represents the behavior of buyers and buyers always want to buy low. That means that the demand curve is downs sloping. The lower the price, the larger the quantity that buyers want to trade. The supply curve represents the behavior of sellers and sellers always want to sell high. That means that the supply curve is ups sloping. The higher the price, the larger the quantity that sellers want to trade. Notice that there is a conflict of interest between buyers and sellers. The point where the supply and demand curves intersect is the current price. It represents a compromise between buyers and sellers. However, that's just the theory. In the real world, buyers and sellers try to anticipate each other's behavior through publicly available information. The consequence of that is that there is always a gap between the highest price buyers are willing to buy and the lowest price sellers are willing to sell. In other words, in reality, it's as if the point of equilibrium was tilted to the right, generating two distinct prices at all times. The bid price, which is the highest price that buyers are willing to trade at, and the ask price, which is the lowest price sellers are willing to trade at. This gap is often too large and that destabilizes the market because it represents low liquidity and low liquidity can exacerbate volatility. This is precisely where market makers enter the stage. They are liquidity providers. They will quote bid prices slightly higher than the current bid and ask prices slightly lower than the current ask. The higher bid will attract some sellers and the lower ask will attract some buyers. Therefore, reducing the bid ask spread. The market makers profit comes from the difference in the narrower spread. In other words, market makers are liquidity providers, but they also have a dark side. This liquidity provision role allows them to remove liquidity in certain cases, creating a liquidity vacuum. We're going to explore the dark side of market makers in another video. Once again, this information is for you to realize that there are multiple battles happening in the market beyond institutional traders versus retail traders. Market makers compete with one another, for example, and that has direct effects on price action. With that said, let's turn our attention to the liquidity concepts you can indeed use in your trading. This leads us to the importance of latent liquidity. Institutions cannot see latent liquidity because it only emerges when brokers transform stop orders into market orders. But the crucial point is that the most obvious of these places is right above highs and right below lows. Retail traders assume that when the market breaks a high, it will continue to the upside and when the market breaks a low, it will continue to the downside. Retail traders also place their stop-loss orders right above highs and right below lows. In both cases, we are dealing with buy stop orders right above highs and sell stop orders right below lows. Retail traders often overlook the fact that highs and lows are not the only source of latent retail liquidity in the chart. These are the most obvious of the latent liquidity sources. The bottom line is that any type of trading technique that is widely used by retail traders will have the same effect because retail traders will behave predictably around it. So beyond highs and lows, techniques like clear trend lines, obvious Fibonacci levels, widely used moving averages, breakouts of common chart patterns, and even psychological levels in the market can be subtler sources of liquidity beyond highs and lows. Latent liquidity happens wherever retail traders behave predictably. In that sense, latent liquidity is not a feature of market structure. Exactly. It's a phenomenon that emerges from the predictable behavior of retail traders. The buy stop orders right above highs and the sell stop orders right below lows cluster and form what is called a liquidity pool. The important thing here is that when price moves above a high, it triggers a surge of buy stop orders that emerge in the order flow. Recalling that for every buy, there must be a sell. This represents a great opportunity for the smart money to enter the market on the opposite side. So, right above highs is a great opportunity for the smart money to go short and right below lows is a great opportunity for the smart money to go long. Liquidity pools represent areas where a lot of trading activity can occur without causing significant changes in price. A liquidity void is the opposite idea of a liquidity pool. A shallow market creates a low liquidity environment where price can travel a wide range without too much aggression. A wide movement does not necessarily have a lot of power behind it. Liquidity voids allow price to travel far without too much trading volume. Highs and lows are not created equal. We have major and minor highs and lows. This leads us to the idea of fractal price movements, which is the intuition that highs and lows happen within one another. Between one major low and a major high forming a range, we usually have a few minor highs and lows. So outside the two major extremes we have major liquidity pools and inside the two major moves we have smaller liquidity pools areas of normal liquidity and areas representing liquidity voids. It's important to point out that latent liquidity has different degrees depending on market structure. The first distinction here is that highs and lows have different sizes. A major high or low will produce a more pronounced effect in terms of latent liquidity in comparison to a small high or low. The reason for this lies in the behavior of retail traders. They assume that the breakout of a large market extreme is more important than the breakout of a small market extreme. Therefore, more stop orders tend to cluster around major market extremes. Another aspect that changes latent liquidity is when market extremes form in the same level. Retail traders will predictably assume that the breakout of a pattern like this is a more important event compared to the breakout of an isolated market movement. The degree of latent liquidity is proportional to the perceived strength of the support or resistance in question. The intuition you need here is this. Imagine the price chart as a three-dimensional structure. If we rotate it, the liquidity pool below the double bottom would be deeper. The deeper the pool, the more trading activity can occur there without significant changes in price movement. Now that you have a good understanding of the basics of liquidity, let's move on to how to actually trade with it. Liquidity concepts are useful when we remember that liquidity is not a destination in the price chart. It's a mean of action, the fuel for the smart money movement, so to speak. Combining this idea with basic market structure and a basic notion of supply and demand zones, we can anticipate big moves produced by the smart money in specific cases. We need the ideas of strong and weak highs and lows, both major and minor, breakoff structure, supply and demand zones, and what we already saw in terms of latent liquidity. Let's imagine for example that the market is trending up. Whenever price breaks a previous high, the low that originated the movement is classified as a strong low. The high that was broken is classified as a weak high. The event where a weak high is broken is called a break of structure in this case. In summary, a break of structure leads to the perception of strong highs and lows. This is the most basic and perhaps most important notion of market structure that also leads to the detection of supply and demand zones. Since we are dealing with an uptrend, the demand zone sits right above the strong low. Right below the strong low and right above the weak high, we have liquidity pools. The question that naturally emerges here is how do we know if the demand zone will hold? Because sometimes it simply doesn't. This is precisely where the idea of liquidity can help increase the chances of success in a trade. The key is looking at the price movement against which price is retracing to detect internal levels of latent liquidity. Let's organize that a little bit and define the upper price movement as the range and the subsequent downward price movement as the pullback. Now, we need to understand the fractality of price action. You may have noticed already that sometimes price moves smoothly in a straight line and sometimes price moves in a more chaotic and noisy way. In the fractal analysis of markets, clean movements like that are classified as low fractal dimension and jagged movements are classified as high fractal dimension. The reasons for this and how you can use it to your advantage go outside the scope of this video. If you want to learn more about it, check my premium course called Fractal Trading, Mastering Price Action and Beyond. We need to classify different scenarios related to the level of smoothness in the price movement that forms the range and the price movement that forms the pullback. There are four possibilities. A smooth range with a smooth pullback, smooth range with rough pullback, rough range with a smooth pullback, and a rough range with a rough pullback. The main point about this is that a rough market structure both from the range and the pullback creates lots of minor liquidity pools. And these minor liquidity pools help increase the chances that a supply or demand zone will hold as expected. For example, here we have a smooth range and pullback. The demand zone out of the strong low is less likely to hold because there are no minor liquidity pools above the strong low. So if the smart money wants to get in the market, it will need to trigger the major liquidity pool below the strong low and then drive the market higher. If market structure is rough in the range and or the pullback, there will be minor liquidity pools that allow the smart money to get in the market before the demand zone is broken. So there is no need to trigger the major liquidity pool. Here you must consider the different degrees of liquidity we saw previously. Now there is one very important thing you should know about this. People who teach smart money concepts like to give you the impression that understanding this is purely mechanical. But sometimes these concepts will simply fail. And the reason goes back to what was said earlier. There are other battles going on in the market beyond the smart money versus the retail traders. These other battles simply don't care about market structure but their actions will be reflected in price. Therefore disrupting these notions of market structure sometimes a very simple example of that is when a commercial trader which is considered to be the highest tribe of smart money since they have access to primary market information decides to use the financial market as a hedging mechanism rather than a speculative one. This will usually involve a hedge where the profit comes from the difference between derivatives and the underlying asset not from the notion of buying low and selling high. This trade which is often massive will be reflected in price action but it will disrupt all these notions of market structure we are learning because the market player behind it simply doesn't operate under that logic. I have a video here in the channel demonstrating exactly how that works if you're interested and it serves as a good primer for the world of derivatives trading. Another detail here is that sometimes a false breakout is not what it seems to be. False breakouts are not always the result from predatory practices in the market. And once again, it is impossible to know when it is simply by looking at a price chart. False breakouts feel like manipulation, but they are often misinterpreted symptoms of deeper market mechanics, not necessarily malicious intent from bigger institutional players towards retail traders. Retail traders assume all false breakouts are engineered. But in reality, many of the false breakouts are failed auctions, which means a lack of follow-through interest, inventory shifts, which is when a market maker is hedging risk. Mutual funds and asset managers rebalancing portfolios, and news whips, meaning a sudden repricing of macro expectations. Recall that the price chart is the tip of the iceberg of the market. It shows the outcome, but it doesn't show the intent. It shows the effect, but not the cause. It shows the price, but not the purpose behind it. Because price is an incomplete source of information. There is a limit to how much you can infer from it. Different market players coexist, interact, and intersect. But these market players don't operate under the same logic. Speculators, arbitrageers, and hedgers will intertwine and disrupt basic notions of price action and order flow. When these notions of price action and order flow fail in the chart, you'll start looking for the answers of why that happened. But the problem is that the answers don't dwell in the price chart. That also means that market structure, supply and demand, order flow, and liquidity concepts are not a perfect science despite being very helpful. The answer is not looking at other time frames. It's to understand the modes of action of the large market participants that impact price action but that don't use price charts at all. Let's now see some examples of trading using liquidity concepts using real price charts so you can have a better idea of how this plays out in the real world. The first example is in the 1 hour chart of the S&amp;P futures. Price creates a break of structure to the upside and that automatically renders the low that originated the movement as a strong low. It's at this point that we draw a demand zone in this case which is an area right above the strong low. Recalling that right below the strong low we have a liquidity pool. There are many ways of drawing supply and demand zones but one quick way is to simply highlight the range of the candle that forms the strong low. We are going to dive deeper into institutional supply and demand zones in another video. What matters to us in this case is the fact that both the range and the pullback have rough market structure and therefore minor liquidity pools along the way that allow the smart money to get to the upside without violating the demand zone and the strong low. Notice that one of the minor lows in the range coincides with a minor low in the pullback, creating a stronger liquidity pool. When price violates the lowest minor liquidity pool inside the demand zone, it snaps back up again. This is the false breakout that we as retail traders looking at price charts have to assume is the result from the smart money inducing retail traders to the downside just so they can enter with large long positions without consuming a large price range. Given the two liquidity pools above the strong low, the smart money has enough liquidity to drive the market to the upside without breaking the strong low. That's the basic intuition you need when thinking about liquidity concepts in the paradigm of smart money trading. Let's observe now an example where this idea of liquidity inducement simply doesn't work and the things you must pay attention to in order to prepare for that. Take a look at this 4hour chart of gold futures. Here we have a smooth range and a relatively smooth pullback as well. If you think only in terms of liquidity inducement to feel the significant moves, you'll miss the point. Because market structure is smooth, there are no significant liquidity pools within the range and pullback in order to provide enough fuel for the smart money to drive the market up. That leads us to think that price should break the strong low and then move upwards. But that's not what happened. Price pulls back, stops above the strong low and then continues strongly to the upside. What you must remember here is that price doesn't follow liquidity. It follows the perception of value. It will revisit areas of fair and unfair value of the recent past and get attracted and repelled from these areas. If we look at the footprint of this upward price movement, we'll see that near the strong low there is a large stacked imbalance in the ass column and right below the stacked imbalance, there are two consecutive high volume nodes. If we mark this area and extend it to the right, we get this the precise range where price resumes to the upside. This level seen in the footprint represents a level where bias produced the most aggression. So it serves as a more precise demand zone. The type of supply and demand zone you draw depend on the market structure of the price movements involved. But like I said earlier, we'll dive into supply and demand under the smart money trading paradigm in another videos since it's a big subject. The lesson here is the one we saw in the beginning. Price does not move towards liquidity. Price moves towards perceived value. Liquidity is simply a mean through which that happens. You must contextualize that with the limitations of the price chart and the complex landscape of market participants that shape price action. Hopefully this video gives you a more sophisticated and realistic view of liquidity and how it fits into the financial market. If you want to learn more advanced trading ideas, I offer several courses and ebooks. You can check them out in my website fractalflowpro.com or you can send me an email at support@frflowpro.com. If you want to support the ongoing creation of videos like this one, please click the like button, subscribe to the channel, activate the notifications, leave your feedback below in the comment section, and share this video with your trading community. Thank you very much for watching, and I hope to see you in the next videos. Take care.
