Volume Profile: What to Do When POC Fails
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8bhSguZ9U4

Point of control is strong volume profile level, but what if price completely ignores it and shoots straight through it? That failed point of control can actually give you a new trade, a reversal from the same level, but from the other side. Let me show you how it works. So, um if point of control fails, that means that the there is a change of sentiment. And what you can do is you can take a reversal trade. Reversal trade is that you trade the same point of control again, but from the other side. Let me show you. It will be easier if I do a little drawing here. Um Take a look at this profile. Nice D-shaped profile, right? The price moves away from that point of control. That's the point of control line. Moves away from it. Hits the point of control in here. And this is where you go short, right? As you can see, it is a losing trade. So, the point of control failed. The price shot past that level. Now, what comes into play is the reversal trade. You extend this line a bit. Wait for the pullback and at the same level, the same point of control, you enter a reversal trade, which in this case is a long. That's the reversal trade. You would be surprised how often this works and how often this reacts to the pip, to the point of control, right? So, what I'm always saying to my students is point of control just by itself is very, very strong level. If the price doesn't respect it and just shoots past it, it is a very, very important information. It doesn't really mean that the point of control was a bad level to trade. It simply means that buyers are stronger, they pushed through, and that the sentiment changed, and we need to adapt, right? So, that's why you wait for the pullback, and very, very often the market gives you the chance to enter at that level again. Right? Very, very often there is that pullback. And this is the reversal, right? If you previously went short, took a loss, then reversal would be taking a long from the same level, from the same point of control. Let me give you one more example of this. Take a look at this profile here. This is the point of control, right? Price moves away from the point of control, makes a pullback, you go long, and take a loss. The price shoot past the level with no reaction at all. So, what you do is you wait for the pullback, and when the market gives you a chance to jump in a new short from here, then you should do it. As you can see, this would be just the perfect short. Right? So, this is the reversal trade. Ideal scenario is when the price shoots past the point of control very, very quickly with no reaction at all. Even, you know, could be, for example, during macro news. It's completely fine if it shoots past your level in macro news, right? So, this is the point of control, the price shoots past it. Ideal scenario that you know, this is aggressive candle, a huge candle, could be macro news candle. That's fine. If there's no reaction at all, that's perfect scenario for the reversal, right?
