The Simplest Volume Profile Intraday Strategy for Beginners
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uDvT4uDWgB4

Hey everyone. In this video, I'll show you the simplest volume profile strategy. Something that's beginner-friendly, straightforward, and actually usable right away. I'll show you how to find key levels using volume profile, when to enter the trade, where to place your stop and take profit, the results that you can expect, how to improve them, common mistakes, and more. So, let's get to it. Now, since this strategy relies heavily on volume profile, let me at least briefly tell you what volume profile is all about for those of you who don't know this, okay? So, volume profile is an indicator which shows where trading activity happened. Looks like this. It is a histogram. The most important place in any volume profile is the point of control. That's where the volume profile is the widest, and that's the place where most volumes were traded, okay? The most important thing to remember about volume profile is that heavy volumes are significant support and resistance zones, okay? Especially this zone, which is the point of control. Now, at this point, I'd like to show you how to set up volume profile. Most of you are probably using TradingView and have TradingView subscription, so let's take a look at TradingView and their volume profile. So, here is the TradingView platform. I've already loaded the volume profiles there. Let me quickly show you how you can get this on the chart. So, you want to click the indicators here, and what you want to search for is the session volume HD. This one, okay? You put this on the chart, and by default, it will look like this. So, uh what you want to do is go to settings, and there are two things that you want to tweak in here. So, first, in the input section, you want to select this: extend point of control to the right. That means that the point of control line, which you see here, will be extended to the right until it is tested, okay? That's important. The second thing, if you go to the style section, then you need to have the point of control on, okay? So, the volume profile shows the point of control. On the chart, the point of control is this black line, which shows where the volumes were the heaviest in that day, okay? Uh the rest is just colors and visual settings, so we can leave this at the default. Click okay, and here we go. This is the setting we need. Simple, okay? Now, let's get to the strategy. So, at this point, I'll show you exactly how to trade this, okay? First, we'll cover the long trade entry, and then the short trade entry. So, the first step for the long trade entry is wait until the daily profile is fully formed. So, if you look at this picture, you need to wait until the day is over, okay? Until you see how the volumes were distributed throughout the whole day, okay? Next, price moves away from the point of control. So, as you can see on this chart, the point of control line is this black line here. And you need to wait for the price to move away from this, okay? So, here the price moves away from the point of control, and then, after this, you wait for the pullback back to the point of control. So, this is the point of control line, and you wait for the price to reach that point of control, okay? Now, when the price hits the point of control from above, then you go long, okay? That means long from here. And the last thing about this is that you only want to trade the first test, okay? Only the first touch. That means that, if, for example, the price returned back to this point of control, then you don't take this trade, okay? Only the first touch, which is in here. Now, let's talk about the short trade entry. It is very similar, only for the short trade entry, the strategy is reversed, okay? So, again, you wait until the daily profile is fully formed, like in here. You wait until day is over. Then, price needs to move away from the point of control. So, in here, this is the point of control, and the price needs to move away from it. So, here it moves away from the point of control, and then you wait for pullback to that point of control. This is the pullback, okay? When the price hits the point of control from below, you go short. That means short from here. And that's it. One last rule, the same as before, trade only the first test. And that's the short trade entry, okay? It's quite simple, isn't it? Now, let's talk about take profit and stop loss placement. What I recommend when you start with this strategy is start simple. That means with fixed take profit and fixed stop loss. That means every trade will have the same amount of pips for your take profit and stop loss, okay? I recommend using 10 to 20% of average daily volatility as your take profit and stop loss. You can find uh the average volatility on this website. What I made here is a just a little table where you can find the most popular symbols. So, for example, for the euro dollar, uh currently the average daily volatility is 80 pips. That means that your take profit and stop loss should be between 8 to 16 pips. If you want to go for the middle value, then it will be uh the 12-pip take profit and 12-pip stop loss, okay? Because you are using the same amount of pips for your take profit and stop loss, that means that you are trading with risk-reward ratio one. If you want to improve this strategy in the future, then you can aim for slightly higher risk-reward ratio, but let's start with this one, okay? Every profitable strategy needs to work with risk-reward ratio one. That's my motto, okay? So, let's start with that. If it performs, then slightly start increasing the risk reward. Now, at this point, I would like to tell you why this specific strategy works. What's the logic behind it? Because I'm firm believer that you need to believe in a strategy. You need to know why it works before you start trading it, okay? So, here is why this one works. There are two factors why the price likes to react to the point of control line. So, if you look at this example, we have this volume profile here on the left with this line as the point of control, and as you have already learned, you wait for the pullback to that point of control and go long from there. Now, there are two factors, two reasons why the price reacts at this place. Reason number one, buyers defend their longs. This heavy volume zone represents a place where buyers were active. They were accumulating the long positions here, okay? Then, quite possibly, those buyers pushed the price upwards or manipulated the price to go upwards, and when the price reaches this place again, this is the place where, if the price goes below this level, then those strong buyers will will start losing money, okay? Because their average position is is in here. So, obviously, they don't want that. They want to defend their longs. So, they want to manipulate the market, and they try and push the price upwards from there, okay? So, that's the first factor. Buyers defending their longs. And this is the long trade scenario, obviously, okay? Now, the second reason why the price reacts here is that, at the same time, sellers are quitting their shorts. So, imagine you are a seller who entered short in here, okay? Now, the price moves downwards, but enters a significant place where there are quite possibly strong buyers standing in the way of this short. So, what do you do? You quit your trade here, because you don't want to fight with those strong buyers, because quite possibly, the buyers will push the price up, right? So, the logical thing for you as a seller selling uh from here to here is just quit the trade when the price reaches this significant support based on those volumes, and be done with the trade, okay? That's what you do as a seller. Now, if you are in a short position, then the way how you quit a short is you enter a long, okay? So, that means that by entering the long, you actually fuel this move, okay? So, that's the second factor, okay? Buyers pushing the price upwards, that's the first factor. The second factor, sellers quitting their shorts. Both are doing the same thing at the same time, okay? Both are doing this at the same time, helping the price to move up from the support. So, this is the logic. Now, at this point, what I'd like to do is go to a live chart and show you a couple of examples of this setup so you can see how it actually works, okay? So, let me go back to the TradingView and let me comment on a couple of those trades, okay? So, let's start from here. Let's take a look at this daily volume profile. It has its point of control in here, this line. So, what you do when you see this is you wait for the pullback. The price goes away from the level, makes pullback, and this is the place where you go short, okay? Short from here. So, that's the first trade. Let's now take a look at the next day, this one. This is the point of control line and here the price moves away from the level, makes pullback, and that means you go short from here, okay? In this case, there was just a small reaction, not too huge. Let me check. Yeah, in this case, if you are using that 12-pip take profit, it would actually reach the take profit, but the reaction wasn't too huge. All right, let's take a look at the next one, shall we? So, this is the next day. The point of control is this line. In this case, market opened with a gap, made pullback, and here is a short. In this case, it was a loser. The price didn't react there. Now, there's one trick which I like to do when I take a loss like this one. Because when the price just shoots past a daily point of control like with no reaction at all, then that means that we are dealing with strong buyers, okay? And when we know that we are dealing with strong buyers, the logical thing is join them, okay? So, what you do is you wait for pullback to that level, to that exact point of control you are trading before. And in this case, you don't enter a short, but you enter a long, okay? Long from the exact same level. I call this reversal trade, not a revenge trade, but a reversal trade, okay? So, you take a loss here, but then you can make your money back here. Okay, let's take a look at the next day. So, the next day looks like this. We have a daily point of control in here. Price moves away from it, makes a pullback. Short from there. Okay? Now, what we have next is this point of control, older one, being hit in here. In this case, the price goes past it, no reaction, but again, there's a pullback to the same level, so that means you can enter the a reversal trade and make your money back, okay? Now, let's take a look at the next one. So, here is another day, another volume profile. This is the point of control. This is where the price hits that point of control for the first time. And this is your short. This is your reaction, okay? Now, I can continue like this forever, but it would probably take quite a lot of time. As you can see, the market does like to react to those point of control lines, like for example, in here or another reaction to point of control is in here. Another one to this point of control is in here. So, yeah, the market does react there, and actually, this is a very good strategy to start with a a trading volume profile. Last couple of days, there were also a couple of nice reactions. Uh if you take a look at this point of control, then couple of moments ago, there was a reaction to it already in here. And then uh there was this uh daily volume profile, and yesterday there was a reaction to that point of control in here. And uh what we also have here is this point of control. It still hasn't been tested, so when the price reaches this level, which is at, let me tell you, 1.1603, then there should be a reaction from there as well, okay? So, that's the strategy. Now, let's talk about the results of the strategy. In the long run, this strategy is profitable. In the short term, I have to warn you, it is not consistent. Uh the reason for that is that there's basically no simple strategy like this one, for example. You don't need to think about the strategy. It's very simple. You just trade pullback to every point of control, right? So, it's very simple. And with those simple strategies, you need to be okay with the fact that all those simple strategies are not consistent in the short run, okay? So, if you look at this equity, you will probably have periods where the price will just have loser after loser like in here or like in here, okay? In the long run, yeah, it will be profitable, but you need to be okay with the fact that sometimes you'll have bad periods like this one or, for example, this one. Okay? Now, there's a way how to improve those results. This is actually what I do with my volume profile strategy. What I do is I look for confluences with uh different strategies. What I do is I'm looking for confluences with VWAP, order flow, price action, and fibos. So, to give you just one example, if you take a look at this picture here, then you have the daily profile here, and this is the point of control. Uh in this case, it's not perfect because at this place, the daily profile is not formed yet, but it nicely demonstrates the confluences. So, here is the point of control line, and at the same time, you can notice that there's this gray line. That means that there's first deviation of weekly VWAP, okay? So, we have confluence with VWAP because it's very close to the point of control. Also, if you take a look here, then this is a fair value gap. That's from smart money concepts, and I like to combine it with volume profile. And in a short trade scenario, I like to trade from the beginning of the fair value gap, which is in here. Okay? So, in this case, we have confluence of three setups, the volume profile setup, the VWAP setup, and the price action setup, that's the fair value gap. All point more or less to the same level or to the same area, telling me that there's a resistance there, okay? The more setups point to the same level, the better. If you want to level up your trading even more, what you can do is you can use order flow to confirm the trade entry. So, when the price hits this level or when it's close to the level, you take a look at the order flow and wait for confirmation there. Now, in this video, I don't really want to go into details about order flow. I just wanted to mention how you can improve the results of this strategy, okay? So, this is what I do. This is how I make this more consistent. Now, you can fine-tune this even more, but for that, you need first backtest and then real data of your trades, okay? Let me show you. So, what I have here is my interactive trading journal, and in here, um I can look, for example, at uh what symbol performs best with my strategy. So, for example, here, this shows how my strategy performs on the Australian dollar. This is the equity. This is the win rate, okay? Uh we can take a look, for example, at the euro dollar. As you can see, the win rate here is 71%. Euro dollar is my best-performing pair. I can take a look, for example, at the US dollar Canadian dollar, which is only 59, or, for example, the ES, 67 win rate, and this is how the equity looks like. So, you want something like this so you can tell which pairs or instruments you want to trade with the strategy. This is how you can fine-tune it. And then, you want to focus only on the best ones, okay? So, those are the best symbols, but you can also uh take a look at what days you perform the best. I personally perform the worst on Mondays. This is how it would look like if I was trading only Mondays. My best days are Fridays. So, this is how it looks if I trade only Fridays, okay? So, to fine-tune this strategy and make it make it even better, you want to do something like this. It doesn't need to be interactive like what I have here, but you definitely need an Excel file where you just write down your trades and see where they perform best, okay? Now, at this point, I would like to address some common mistakes that many people do. Over the years, thousands and thousands of students went through my trading education, and I've seen this so many times. You wouldn't believe how many people are doing those mistakes. So, let me talk about them a bit here. The first mistake is trading too many instruments. You know, the best traders on the planet, they focus just on one, max two trading instruments, which they master totally, okay? So, what I recommend is doing the same. Stick to two or three instruments that work best for you. Don't try to trade too many instruments because, you know, people often think that the more instruments they'll trade, the more trades they'll have and the more profits they'll have. But, this is not how it works, okay? Focus on two or three, you should be fine. Another mistake is inconsistent risk per trade. What you want to do is keep the same risk per every trade. For example, 2% risk per trade. You know, what people do is that if they see a trade that they really believe in, they tend to risk more than on the next trade which doesn't look too good and they're afraid, so they risk less, okay? And by doing that, they totally mess up their risk management and their equity just suffers, okay? So, keep the same risk per every trade because in reality, the trade that you initially believed in very often turns out to be a loser and the trade that you didn't believe too much in ends up being a perfect winner. So, that's why you want to stick uh to the same risk per trade. Now, the last thing here is trading around macro news. I don't know why traders are such gamblers, but you know, trading around macro news is just it is silly. The thing is that you can't really predict what will happen during the macro news, okay? So, what I advise you is you want to avoid high impact news. Just go to the Forex Factory website. It looks like this and take a look at the high impact news. Those are the news which are marked in red like those. And when there's this news, just avoid trading that instrument that the news is affecting, okay? So, you can, for example, quit your trades 5 minutes before the news is released and then after the news, you want to wait after the post news volatility calms down. If you guys want a hard rule, it can be, for example, 10 minutes after the news, okay? But, don't trade during the news. That's just gambling and it's very risky. Now, before we wrap this up, what I want to do is do a little summary because we covered quite a lot of things here and I just wanted to place everything on one slide here so you guys can grab a screenshot and have it at hand. So, for this strategy, you want to use the Session Volume Profile HD from TradingView. You want to trade pullbacks to daily point of control like you see on this picture, okay? This is the point of control. You trade pullbacks to that, okay? That's the strategy. You trade only the first test. The stop loss and take profit is between 10 and 20% of average daily volatility. The way to improve this strategy is through confluences like VWAP, order flow, or price action. You can fine-tune this even more using trade journal and you want to trade two to three markets. You want to keep constant risk and avoid trading during the news. Okay? So, that's about it. I hope you guys found this useful. I hope that you'll try this strategy and let me know how it works for you. If you want to learn more about volume profile trading and if you want to trade alongside me every day, then you want to visit my website. It is at traderdale.com and if you click trading course and tools in here, [music] then it'll take you to this page where you can browse my trading education and custom-made tools. If you are interested in volume profile trading, then the Volume Profile Pack is the right thing for you, okay? So, thanks for watching the video and I'll see you next time. Until then, happy trading.
