This Combo Makes Volume Profile Entries MUCH Stronger
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=flMdF-A2mmM

Hey everyone, it's Dale here. Today, I'll show you my two favorite trading setups. One is price action, the other one is volume profile. And when those two setups align and point to the same level, that's where the best trades come from. So, let me show you how exactly this works. Have you ever heard that if there is a strong resistance, it turns into a support when the price goes past that resistance? That's very, very old thing, right? So, take a look at here. This line represents a strong resistance because the price was reacting here and here to it. And because of those reactions, we can tell that this was a strong resistance in the past, right? What happened next is that the price went past that resistance. And when it went past it, that resistance turned into a support. So, the same level is now a support. And that's why it's called support resistance flip, right? Because resistance became a support. And the price reacts to that support. And that's the whole thing, right? That's the whole setup. I'm sure that you heard about it because this is like the basic price action thing. Let me show you one more example here before we add volume profile to it. And this is a bearish scenario. Now, here we have a very strong reaction. That means that this level worked as a support. When the price blew past it, that support turned into a resistance, right? So, it is a resistance. And when the price hits that resistance from below, there should be a reaction, right? This is how it's supposed to look like. Now, the more reactions in the past to the level, the better. But even if it's one, I count it as a proper confirmation, all right? Now, let me show you how to use this with volume profile. I'm combining this only with the trend setup because that's really just the one setup you can combine this with. Uh here we have a downtrend. And in that downtrend, you can see that there is a significant volume cluster, right? That's the trend setup. Now, another thing to notice here is that the price reacted to this level, the beginning of the volume cluster in the past. That means that in the past, it worked as a support, right? This level or this area doesn't need to be to the pip, right? Just general area worked as a support. And now, when the price blew past that support forming those heavy volumes here, by the way, that turned into a new resistance, right? So, this is a new resistance. That means that we have a significant volume cluster here. And we have this price action setup that adds strength to the volume cluster because it points to the same resistance level as the volume cluster, cool, right? So, this is how we can combine it. One more thing, a little bonus, if you can see that, I'm not sure, but it's other detailed in here, there's also a fair value gap. So, not only we have the volume cluster, we have the support becoming resistance setup, but we also have a beginning of a fair value gap here. All the setups combined, the two price action setups and one volume profile setup. This is a perfect trade. This is how the price reacted to that level. By the way, in this picture, I wanted to show you how the price reacted to that exact level. But in real trading, I would be more careful. And if the price turned a little bit before the level, let's say maybe three pips before the level, like for example, here, I would discard the level. I wouldn't trade it because I would count this as a reaction to the level and I would consider the level spent, all right? But for the purpose of this video, I wanted to show you this example where all the setups nicely aligned and created a strong resistance. As you can see, the price was here respecting that many times. So, let's go for the next example. And here again, we have a strong trend. Within the trend, we have a significant volume cluster. And if you look here and also here, the price was reacting to this area in the past. That means that it was a strong support. This area was a strong support up until this point where the price blew past that support, turning the support into a new resistance, right? So, again, we have a beautiful combo of volume profile setup, the trend setup, and the price action setup, the support resistance flip. So, wait for the pullback and short from there. Now, here's another example. We have a trend. Within that trend, we have a significant volume cluster. And we have this. This beautiful reaction means that this was a resistance in the past. And when the price blew past that resistance, it turned into a new support. As you can see, it beautifully aligns with that volume cluster here. And that's why you wait for the pullback and go long from this level. Now, here's the thing which I wanted to mention. On this volume profile, there are also a couple of volume clusters, this one or this one. The reason why I chose to trade this one, this was, by the way, a real trade. The reason why I chose this one is because of that combo, right? If there are multiple volume clusters and I'm not sure which one to trade and I don't want to trade all of them, then I trade the one which has a combo, like this one. Volume profile plus price action combo, right? Because it makes the volume cluster way stronger. Even if the volume cluster is not the strongest volume cluster, right? If this volume cluster was even smaller, not the biggest volume cluster among those volume clusters, if it was even smaller, then I would still pick it to be the level to trade because it's not just about how big the volumes were there, but also about the confluences, right? So, this is how I go about trading this and about choosing the best volume cluster to trade. Now, here's one last example of this. We have a strong trend. Within the trend, we have a volume cluster. And that volume cluster is even stronger because we have that resistance turning into support setup here. As you can see, this is the same thing over and over again. In this case, beautiful about this is that we also have a fair value gap, the fair value gap being here. And the beginning of that fair value gap is right here. That's my long level, all right? As you can see, reaction was to the pip because we have beautiful combo of volume profile setup and two price action setups. And you'll be surprised how many times you'll be able to find this combo. It's not rare to see this combo. Those actually happen more often than you would think. So, I hope you guys liked the video. I hope you found it useful. Give it a try. I'm sure that you'll love the results. If you're interested in learning more about volume profile trading or getting your hands on my custom-made volume profile indicator, head over to my website, which is traderdale.com, and click this button which says trading course and tools. It'll bring you to this page. If you scroll down a bit, then in here, you can grab my trading education and my custom tools. So, thanks again for watching the video and see you next time. Until then, happy trading.
