The Simplest Way to Combine Order Flow and Volume Profile
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aOVN0k57EBk

Volume profile and orderflow are both fantastic trading tools that track the big trading institutions who move the markets. Each does it in its own way. Volume profile is about the big picture or flow is about the details. In this video, I want to show you how to combine volume profile and orderflow to create a powerful trading strategy which takes out the best of each trading approach. the big picture from the volume profile and the details from the order flow. So let's get to it. So what you see here, this is a typical example of how this strategy can look like and how I use it. You can see two charts. On the left it is a volume profile chart, this one. And on the right there is an orflow chart. First you always want to start with the big picture. That means with the volume profile. So here we have this 30 minutes chart. I'm using volume profile mostly on 30 minute charts. You can obviously use it on different time frames like 15 minutes or hourly time frames. It doesn't matter that much because here we are talking about volumes. The volumes don't change regardless of the time frame. So that's why it doesn't really matter if we are looking at 15inut time frame or 30 minute time frame because the volumes don't change. So anyways on this picture on this 30 minute chart of the Japanese futures you can see that I was looking into this specific area with volume profile and that the volume profile showed a significant heavy volume zone in here in this rotation. So that represents a strong resistance and the resistance is the whole heavy volume zone. It is not a specific level because support and resistances are always zones. Okay. So in this case this was a resistance zone and when this resistance zone formed I was waiting for pullback and when the price reached that zone in here then I opened the orflow software. So in here you switch over to the overflow chart and you want to see a confirmation there a confirmation that the big players are entering the market and that your resistance is likely going to work. So if you take a look at this orflow chart now then roughly in here we have that volume profile resistance zone. Okay, the price went into that zone. Didn't really confirm the trade entry here, but later what formed here was this huge volume node with massive volumes at bit and massive volumes at ask. And this is the confirmation. This is confirmation called the absorption. Don't worry if you don't understand a thing here. I'm just showing you what you learn throughout this video. Okay? So in here we have the confirmation which says okay the big players are jumping in entering their shorts and that's why you should go short from there as well. Okay this was that confirmation. So first we started with volume profile that's the big picture. Then as the price reached our resistance we went for the order flow and looked for confirmation there. And that's what I'm going to teach you today. Okay. And we will start with a volume profile and I'll show you how to identify those strong support and resistance zones. So in this example we have a 30 minutes chart and if you take a look at this volume profile then what stands out here is this heavy volume zone formed within this little rotation. From that heavy volume zone the price went upwards. And because the price went upwards then this heavy volume zone will represent a support. Okay, the whole heavy volume zone is a support zone. Then you just wait for the pullback and if the pullback occurs then in that support zone you want to open the orflow chart and look for the confirmation there. Okay, the important thing here is identifying the support zone and you do it with volume profile. If you look at volume profile then simply put heavy volume zone represents supports and resistance zones. Okay? Because heavy volume zone that's activity of the big players and the price likes to react there. Okay? Like for example it did in here. Now important thing that I wanted to share with you is that you should only look for first tests. Okay? So if you look at this volume cluster then it got tested in here. This is the first test and you want to trade the first test. Okay. Uh the second test came in here when the price reached this zone again and it is a nogo. You don't trade that. Okay? Only the first test. So the heavy volume zone which you are about to trade in this case this one shouldn't be tested. Okay? You should only use the orflow here but not in here. Okay. Uh let me give you another example. In this case, we have a short trade scenario. We have this volume profile here and it shows heavy volume zone in this area in this rotation. The reason why heavy volume zone is almost always in a rotation is that the big players are usually accumulating their heavy volumes inside a rotation because they have time for it. They have insane amounts of capital and they need to accumulate that slowly without alerting the market. So they are building up their position slowly and they can do that in a rotation slowly and unnoticed. All right. So that's why heavy volume zone is almost always in a rotation. So anyways in this case we have this beautiful heavy volume zone formed in here and this represents a resistance zone. So this whole area is a resistance and it is a resistance because from this heavy volume zone the price went downwards. Okay. So it were sellers accumulating their short positions here then they pushed the price downwards. So what you do is you draw that resistance in your chart then wait for the pullback and when the price reaches that resistance then it's time for orderflow. Okay. Now one last example of a significant volume zone and then we will take a look at the orderflow setups. Okay. So in here this volume profile shows massive heavy volume zone formed in this rotation because the price went up from that heavy volume zone that means that this zone is a support. Okay. So this whole zone is a support and you simply wait for the price to reach that support. When it does it's time for order flow. Okay. So this is how you identify significant support and resistance levels around which you will want to trade with orflow. Now comes the part uh when I show you how to do that. So here we go. Orflow confirmation. One important thing that I need to mention before we begin is that the setups which I'm going to show you the change in delta and absorption setup. You use those only when the price reaches strong support or resistance zone. You don't use them anywhere or in any random place on the chart. Only in those areas you found using volume profile. Okay? Only in those support or resistance zones. That's very very important. So, as I was saying, I'm going to teach you two setups, two confirmation setups that confirm that the big players are going to react to your uh support or resistance zone. The first one is change in delta. The second one is absorption. There are more setups that you can use, but those two are I would say the simplest to start with. And in the future, if you like this approach, you can build on that. The time frame I'm going to be using for this orital confirmation is going to be five minute time frame. Okay. So let's get to it. Let's start with the first setup which is change in delta. So first thing that I should mention is what actually delta is. So the delta buyers minus sellers. If you look at any footprint on the chart, let's say for example this footprint right here, then the aggressive buyers are on the right side of the footprint. That's this side. It's called the ask and it represents aggressive buyers. The left side of the footprint is called bid and it represents aggressive sellers. Right? And the difference between those two is delta. And delta is usually in any orflow software written below each footprint like in here or in here or in here. If the delta is positive then buyers were more aggressive in that specific footprint. If delta is negative then it were sellers who are more aggressive or more dominant in that footprint. So uh let me show you how you can implement this into your trading. So imagine that uh you have a volume profile resistance somewhere in here and on the orderflow chart you can see that the price made it towards that level or towards that zone and hit it in here. And this is where you open the Oracle software and look for confirmation. In this case, it is this footprint because as you can see below this footprint, the delta turned negative. Negative delta means sellers are in control. Right? So what this is telling you is that price reached towards a resistance and at that resistance sellers started to jump in. In other words, other market participants, not only you, see this resistance, they are reacting to it. And that's exactly the confirmation that you need to enter your trade, right? It doesn't really matter that much if like how big the delta is, if it's like hugely positive or a huge negative number. What is the most important thing is that if it's positive or if it's negative. Okay, for a short trade scenario, you want to see negative delta showing aggressive sellers. Now, here is another example. Imagine that you have a resistance in here. Resistance could be based on the volume profile or any other thing that you like to trade with. For me, it is uh the volume profile. So price goes against uh that resistance. has that resistance. And if you look closely then you can see that in this footprint the delta turned negative right before that when the price was rising the delta was positive right which is quite typical because when the price is rising buyers are more aggressive they are dominant. So that makes sense that when the price is rising, the delta is usually positive. So delta is positive, but it hits the resistance and delta turns negative. That's your signal. Sellers are jumping in and that's where you go short. Now notice that you don't need to read every number of every footprint. Now you just look at the delta, which is rather cool, isn't it? That makes this uh very easy even for Orafflow beginners to start with. But important thing, you only need to look for the change of delta when the price hits a resistance or a support zone. If you see that or if you see the change of delta in a random place in the chart, it doesn't mean too much. Okay, keep that in mind. You still need to be able to see the bigger picture context. Now, one last example of this change in delta confirmation. This is going to be a long trade scenario. So imagine we have a volume profile support somewhere in here. The price slowly reaches uh towards that support and then it hits that support in here. Um first footprint that hits that support actually doesn't really show you that buyers are jumping in. So we have negative delta. No trade so far. Then again negative delta, no trade, you wait. But then hugely positive delta and that's the signal for you to jump into your long trade. Right? This footprint is footprint which is dominated by strong and aggressive buyers and that's why you should go long from there. That's your confirmation. Okay. So that's the change in delta. Let's now talk about the absorption which is the second setup, second confirmation setup and it goes like this. Imagine that we have a support somewhere in this area for example and price reaches uh towards that support. It hits it and then you wait for the for the for the for for some kind of confirmation. In this case, if you take a look at this high volume node, you can see that there were massive volumes both on bit and also at ask. 514 contracts on bit and over a,000 contracts on ask. Now, for the absorption setup, you need to see unusually huge volumes like in here. Now, how to tell if volume is unusually big or no? Simple rule of thumb, just take a look at the chart and see like what the average volume is and compare it to that volume you can see in here. If you look into this area, then [clears throat] the average volume absolutely isn't like 500 or,000 contracts. It's way below that. Maybe average could be like a 100 contracts or 150, but not this. So this tells you that this is unusually huge volume and that it is important. What it means in this context is that price was dropping and those 514 contracts those are aggressive sellers. So sellers were selling aggressively. They were trying to push through but buyers stepped in. That's this number. And the buyers were buying everything the sellers had to sell. That's why the price stopped. It stopped moving because despite the selling pressure of the sellers, buyers stepped in and they were buying. Price stopped. Okay, that's your confirmation. Price the selling pressure is being absorbed. That's why this setup is called absorption, right? So you need heavy volumes both on bit and on ask at a crucial level like this one and that's a signal for you to jump in your trade. Okay. So that's the absorption. Now let me give you another example of the absorption. Imagine that we have a significant resistance zone in here. resistance zone which you found for example using volume profile or preferably using volume profile price reaches that resistance and then you wait for the confirmation and take a look at the volumes in all those nodes. It doesn't need to be one heavy volume node. There could be multiple of them but they need to be at top of each other stacked like in here. Heavy volumes on all those also heavy volumes in all those. This is absorption. Now in this case buying pressure is being absorbed, right? Buyers are pushing the price up but sellers are selling. Price stops and then reacts. Okay. Buying pressure got absorbed. And again you need to use this setup only when the price reaches a significant zone in the chart. uh zone which you determine or found using uh volume profile right so first is the big picture the volume profile then is the orflow don't look for absorption anywhere on the chart it will be no use if you do that it needs to appear in your support or resistance zone the cool thing about the absorption is that you don't need to think about like where the heavy volume needs to appear whether bid or ask simply It needs to be both the bit and on ask, right? That's the absorption. Okay, one last example. Imagine that we have a strong support in here and the price reaches uh into that support. What you can notice here is that in this first footprint, there's not really any heavy volume cluster that would be out of ordinary. If you compare it for example to volumes in here. But if you take a look at this volume cluster, what stands out is this high volume node. 549 contracts on bit and 359 on ask. This is out of ordinary. This is bigger than the average volume. Right? So that's signal for you to go long from there. The oriflow is telling you that sellers are selling but at the same time buyers are buying. By the way, those two numbers don't need to be like the same or similar. If you remember like uh one of the previous examples we had uh volume cluster, this one which had 500 and,000 contracts. So those numbers don't need to be the same but they both need to be way above average. Okay. So in this case both those were way above average unusually huge volumes and that's the signal that you should go long. All right selling pressure being absorbed by buyers who are buying. Eventually the buyers win and push the price up. So yeah that's that. I hope you guys found this useful. If you guys want to learn more about Orflow trading and if you get and if you want to get your hands on my custommade OFL and volume profile tools, then head over to my website. It is at traderdale.com. And if you click trading course and tools in here, then it will take you to this page where you can browse my trading education and trading indicators. If you're interested in volume profile trading and or trading, then the volume profile pack and orflow pack are right for you. You can get those separately in here or scroll down a bit where you can get those in a bundle where you can get all the four packs that I have, volume profile, orflow, viva pack, and smart money pack all together for a discounted price. So, thanks again for watching the video and I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time. And until then, happy trading.
