Bitcoin at $66,000 Major Support — Time to Buy?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ypaO4GjrpEk

Hello everyone, it's Dale here and in this quick video I want to do an analysis of Bitcoin because I think that right now there's a very very good trading opportunity. Let's check it out. What you see here before you, this is a trading view chart and uh volume profiles here and you're looking at weekly time frame. This is a weekly time frame. So this is really a big picture of Bitcoin and as you can see um I have two volume profiles here. Let's first talk about this one. Um the heaviest volumes in this whole area and this area was right here and the point of control was this line. As you can see we are at that line right now. So the price just made a pullback to this heavy volume zone. What this means is that right now I expect a reaction because the heavy volume zone here represents a strong support. A reason is that buyers who are pushing the price up in this massive uptrend, they were very active here as you can see on the volume profile. And now the price reached this place again. And I expect this place to work as support because those guys should become active again. There should again be very strong activity and that should push the price upwards. All right. So that's the volume profile here on the left. And additionally to that, additionally to this volume profile support, uh there is also another thing. And the thing is that in the past there were those two very very strong reactions to this level. That means that this level was a strong resistance in the past. Right? Because the price was reacting very very strongly to this level. Those two reactions when the price blew past that resistance it turned into a support. This is old price action setup that I like to use and combine it with a volume profile like in here. See, we have that price action setup as well as the volume profile setup, right? And both point us to this zone to this support. And I think this is really really huge because again we are looking at weekly chart. Those massive volumes this occurred on the weekly chart. this massive confluence occurred on a weekly chart. I'm pretty positive that there will be a reaction like this, a huge reaction. Right now, we are at that level at 66,000 and this is exactly the support. So, what I expect right now is Bitcoin to go like this. Uh there is one thing you should be careful about and it is a potential resistance standing in the way and that resistance is this heavy volume cluster. So if the price makes this reaction then this level which is around 88,000 could be a potential resistance and it will be quite interesting to see how the price will react to it whether it will just shoot past it like if there was no resistance at all or if it will react to it. But just wanted to mention that because this will be standing in the way of this long trade. Okay. So potential risk for the long position from from this level. So yeah, that's that. That's my opinion on Bitcoin. Let's see how it plays out. If you guys are interested in learning more about volume profile trading, I recommend visiting my website. It is trader.com. If you click trading course and tools in here, then right here you can browse my trading education and indicator packs. Right now we are running a sale which means you can get it all those four packs. You can get them together in one huge bundle for a massively discounted price. All right, so thanks for watching the video. See you next time. Until then, happy trading.
