How to Spot the Stop Loss Hunt Before It Happens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lBqNWBfrXiI

Have you ever had a level that looked just perfect, but the price still went straight through it? That's usually not random. It's a stop hunt. The big players are hunting for liquidity. In other words, they're hunting for your stop-loss. In this video, you'll learn how to spot it before it happens so you don't get caught in a bad trade. I'll show you two trades. One wins, one fails. Your job is to guess which one will be the winner and which one will be the loser. So let's get started. You can see the two trades. First one right here based on heavy volume zone here and this green line that's potential support. The second trade again we have a volume profile here with heavy volume zone here. And again the green line potential support but only one will work. One will be winner, the other one will be a loser. And I want you to guess which one is the winner, which one is the loser. Okay, let me show you. So this is how the first trade went. The price didn't respect the support. It went straight past it. So it was a losing trade. The reason this was a losing trade is that the market was hunting here for liquidity. Now, let me show you how I can tell. If you look at the low here at the lows of those candles, they are very close to each other, right? And traders, they like to place their stop-loss orders at those places at lows of candles. If they are very close to each other like here, then this creates something which I call stop-loss cluster. A stop-loss cluster is a place where many people have their stop-loss orders and market likes to go past it to take that liquidity out because market is always for search for some new liquidity. Right? So when there is something like this and the price is close to it, it usually quickly shoots past it taking all that liquidity here. And it's usually pretty fast because stop-loss orders are market orders. So that's why it's usually that fast. And that's why it's not very clever to place a long level here if you have a stop-loss cluster below it because it's very likely that the market will simply test that stop-loss cluster and that means your long level will fail. Okay. So even though we have a nice heavy volume zone here and in ideal scenario the market should react to it, it doesn't because there is that stop-loss cluster, right? A lot of people having their stop-loss orders here and that's the problem. And those could be people that are trading a breakout strategy. Break out from this range. Could be people who are trailing their long positions or could be simple people that like to place their stop-loss orders at lows of candles. All those people get trapped in here and stopped out. So this is a bad trade. I call this a weak low. Right? If you look at it, many lows close to each other like this. I call this a weak low. Now take a look at the second example. I'll show you how it played out. This was a winner. There's that heavy volume cluster. Little pullback to it and a nice reaction. Now I want you to compare the lows here. This one the weak low and this one. This is something which I call a strong low. Strong rejection of low prices in other words. Right? So there's not a stop-loss cluster here. In here there was a stop-loss cluster. So that's why the market isn't really tempted to go here because there was just this one sharp rejection of lower prices meaning that buyers were defending that place and pushing the price up. So the market doesn't really need to fight those buyers that would be you know risky for them. So instead there's that reaction to that heavy volume zone exactly as it should be. All right. So this is how you can tell a bad trade with weak low or a stop-loss cluster here from a good trade which has a strong low and usually a good reaction. Okay. Now let me show you another example and in here again I want you to tell me which trade is a winner and which trade is a loser and try to apply the things which I showed you in the previous example. Okay. So again we have a heavy volume zone here. there will be a pullback to that level. And I want you to tell me whether here price will react to that support or if it will shoot past it, if it will be a winner or loser. And the same thing with the second one. All right, we have a heavy volume zone here. The price will make a pullback and there should be a reaction, right? But I want you to tell me whether you think that that will be that reaction or if the price will just shoot past that level. Uh so let me show you how the first one uh ended up. The first one was a winner. The price reacted to that level and went up. So this was a winner. Take a look at this low strong low. Right? There's not really any sign of weak low or a stop-loss cluster here. We have a strong rejection of lower prices at the place where the heavy volumes were formed. That means that this is a good trade to take. You can go long from there and most likely this will be a winner. Now regarding that second trade, the second trade is not really a good trade as you can tell. Now there is that heavy volume zone pullback but the price shoots past it. Now the reason it shoots past it is if you look at this low and this low they are exactly at the same level. And when it is like this two lows at the same level then it is something called failed auction. A failed auction is a thing that the market likes to test because it is sort of a imperfection right and market likes to test below it exactly like it did in here. The failed auction in other words is a form of the weak low which I spoke before and it's risky to attempt to enter a trades like this one along from here when below your level there is that failed auction or a weak low right because the price likes to test it. Reason is that there there's usually liquidity below that, right? So market wants to test that out. See whether there is that liquidity or no. At least when you see the failed auction, the market likes to test at least one pip below it. Right? So yeah, this would be the losing trade. Again, take a look at the lows here. This one is a strong one. The level is good to trade. This one is a weak low or in other words, failed auction in this case. And going long from here would be a bad idea. Okay. Now last set of examples and again you tell me which is winner which is loser. In this case we have a short trade scenario but the principles are the same only the charts now are reversed. So here we have a heavy volume zone and this red line that's our resistance and typically the price should react like this. The same goes for the second example. Here's a heavy volume zone, a resistance, and the price should react like this. But as I was saying, one will be winner, the other one will be a loser. So take a look at those highs. This one, this one, which is strong. So let's start with a trade on the left. Okay, here we have a huge stop-loss cluster. So many highs of those candles are very close to each other. Those lines which I'm drawing here, those are stop-loss orders, right? And this is a one huge stop-loss cluster. And when the market and when the price comes close to it, then usually it likes to test it to shoot past it. And as I was saying, it's usually quick boom taking all those stop-loss orders out. So that's why this resistance level did not get respected and the price went past it, right? Even though we had nice heavy volume zone here, but it was a risky trade because of that stop-loss cluster. Right? On the other hand, if you look at the second trade, we have this heavy volume zone. And in that heavy volume area, the high was here. This sharp rejection of higher prices. And if you compare it to this, it's very different. Right? Here we have a weak high. Here is a strong high. Now you may say that in here there are also a lot of highs close to each other. That's true. But the thing is that this high the highest one took the liquidity out of uh this whole area. So the stop loss orders which were here no longer relevant because this took them out. Right? So we have a strong high. We don't have a volume cluster here. And that's why the price made a reaction to the volume cluster as it should. All right. So that guys, I hope you liked it. I hope this is something new and useful for you. I don't think that many people are actually teaching this on the internet and yeah, this is really actionable info that I really believe that will improve your trading and that you can start using right away and doesn't really matter if you are trading with volume profile or another trading method. This applies to everything because this is simple market logic. All right, so give it a try. Test it out. Let me know in the comments how it works out for you. And if you guys want to learn more about volume profile trading and get your hands on my customade indicators, then head over to my website. It is at traderdale.com. And if you click this button saying trading course and tools, then it will take you to this page where you can browse my trading education and indicators. We have the volume profile pack, the orflow pack, VWAP pack, and smart money pack. You can get those separately in here or if you scroll down a bit, then you can get a combo which includes all four of them together for a discounted price. So that's for that. I hope you like the video and I'll see you next time.
