❌ The Worst 3 Mistakes in Volume Profile Trading
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NxgLgUt6lq8

Hey everyone, it's Dale here. In this video, I want to show you three very common mistakes that I see all the time with volume profile traders. And honestly, I'm not surprised. These are the kind of details that almost no one talks about, but they make a huge difference. Will be especially useful if you already trade with volume profile and want to fine-tune what you are already doing. But even if you are newer to volume profile trading, this will help you avoid mistakes that cost traders a lot of money later on. So let's get to it. So the mistake number one is trading from the point of control instead of the edge of a heavy volume zone. Let me start by doing a little drawing here. Take a look at this volume profile. It has a point of control right here. Point of control, that's the place where the volumes were the heaviest. And what most of volume profile traders do, they trade from that point of control. So they mark that place like this. If the price goes up, they wait for the pullback and they go long from there. exactly from the point of control. But the problem is that the price often doesn't quite reach the point of control. What often happens is that the price turns a little bit sooner like this. So what I recommend doing here instead of trading from the point of control is trading from the beginning of the heavy volume zone or in other words from the edge of that heavy volume zone like this. This is where you enter the trade and if you do it like this you won't miss as many trades. You know, I was also trading from the point of control in the past, but then I was going through my trading journal and through my screenshots of my trades and I noticed that I was missing too many trades just because of that. So, I changed my strategy a bit from trading from the point of control to trading from the edge of the heavy volume zone and my trading improved dramatically. Now, let me show you a couple of examples of this. Uh, here is a first example. Uh take a look at this volume profile right here. And this is the point of control, the place where the heaviest volumes were traded. So if you wanted to trade from here, that would mean long from this line. You would simply miss your opportunity here. You would miss the trade. But if you trade it from the beginning of that heavy volume zone, you wouldn't miss it and it would be a beautiful trade, right? So this is where you should go long from, not the point of control. Now, here is another example. And here we have a short trade example and we have a heavy volume zone in here followed by a nice sell off. And if you are trading from the point of control of this heavy volume zone, then you would be trading from here and you would miss the trade. See, you would miss the trade entry. But if you follow my advice and trade from the edge of the heavy volume zone, then in this case, you would be trading from here and it would be a nice winner. All right, this is what I'm talking about. Market simply likes to react to the edge now, not to the point of control. This is a long trade example. We have a uptrend. That's why we'll be looking uh for a long trade. Um we have this volume cluster here and the point of control of this volume cluster is right here. So if you wanted to go long from there, you would simply miss the trade. But if you are trading from the edge of that heavy volume zone, it would be a winner. All right. Now, let me show you a trade uh which I took earlier today. It was a trade on the US dollar Japanese yen. I think it nicely demonstrates this. So, what you see here, this is a 30 minute chart of the US dollar Japanese yen. This is Ninja Trader 8 platform with my custommade volume profile and viewup indicators. And I was trading from this uh heavy volume zone. This green line, this is where I had my long level at 158.1.7. And this was the reaction. Beautiful reaction. The trade lasted 1 minute. It was beautiful. And if you look at the volumes, then as you can see, if I was trading from the local point of control, then I would miss the trade. See, I would miss it. I would be mad about it by about missing a trade like this. But I was trading from the beginning of the heavy volume zone and I caught it and it was a beautiful winner. All right. So this is exactly what I'm talking about. You want to trade from the edge of the volume cluster or of the heavy volume zone not from the point of control. Now the second mistake I want to talk about is market is rotating but you are trading a trend. You know the thing is that many traders use the same strategy regardless of what the market is doing. But if the market is rotating, you need to use a strategy for a rotating market. And if the market is trending, then you need to use different strategy for a trending market. Many traders don't do that. They just trade some universal strategy and you know that's that. But that's a mistake. Let me do a little drawing. So at first I would like to draw a rotating market. So this is market which goes sideways. It's rotating. And volume profile for a rotating market looks like this. It's a D-shaped profile corresponds with letter D with point of control somewhere in the middle. In this case, trading from the heavy volume zone or from the point of control itself would be a huge mistake because when the market is rotating, it typically moves around the point of control. It rotates around it, but it doesn't react to it as if it was a support or resistance. So, when the market is rotating, you want to trade from little volume bumps which are here or here. They don't need to be there. Like often you will find some in those two places but if they are not there you don't trade it but if there are volume clusters here or here then you want to trade them. So that means you want to trade shorts from this line and longs from here like this. This is how you should trade a rotating market. Right? And what you can do is you can use the point of control as the takerit for your trades. Okay. So that's the rotation. But when the market is trending, it's different. So this is a trending market. Volume profile for this trending market could look for example like this with point of control being here. And in this case, you want to use that heavy volume zone as a support. In this long trade scenario, it's support. And if the price hits that, you go long here, right? So in this case, the heavy volume zone is your level to trade from because the market is trending and it likes to react to those heavy volume zones. See? And this is the difference between rotation and a trend and how you need to approach those. Now let me show you a couple of charts here. Here is a market which is going sideways. It's rotating. This is how the volume profile looks like in that rotation. And if you look at uh the volume profile then you can identify significant volume clusters. This one at the top and then there are two at the bottom. So when it's like this then you want to focus on trading shorts from this place from the beginning of that uh volume cluster which is at the top of that uh volume profile and longs either from this place or from this place. All right that's how you trade the rotation. One more example very very similar. We have a market which is rotating and this is how the volumes look. Now again you want to identify those little volume bumps around the edges which means this one and here we have also two at the bottom. So again, you want to focus on shorts from here and longs from here. All right, that's how we approach a rotating market. Now, let me give you a couple of examples of a market uh which is moving, which is trending. So in here we have a nice uptrend. Within that uptrend we have significant volume cluster and you want to use this as a support. So you want to trade from the beginning of it like this. This would be the support and you go long from there. All right. So that's for the trending market. See it's quite different uh to the market which is rotating and you can't really use the same strategy for both. Again we have a trend here and in that trend we have a significant volume cluster. What you do is you print a line from the beginning of the volume cluster. This particular trade I remember taking the short from here. I remember this because this was a beautiful trade because I caught almost the high of this reaction and then took profit almost at the low here. It was a great trade and um yeah I was looking into the profile like this I consider this the heavy volume zone so that's why I was trading from the beginning of this and yeah beautiful [clears throat] winner here and that's how you trade uh when there's a trend right if this was a rotation it would be completely different story completely different use of the volume profile but many traders don't know that they just use the same strategy all over and they don't really care about how the market looks like and then you know the results are obviously not very good. Now mistake number three is trading levels which have already been tested. Now let me do now let me do a little drawing again to show you what I mean. So imagine that the price does this. This is a little uptrend. Volume profile for this would look probably something like this. This being the point of control. And if you look at it then this looks like a simple trade right? You draw this support line here and when the price makes pullback to it, you go long from there, right? Well, not exactly. This is a mistake. And the reason that this is a mistake is that this heavy volume zone was already tested in here with this little pullback. It was a tested level. This was the first test. All right. Heavy volumes got formed in this little rotation here. Price went up, made a pullback and tested those volumes. Boom. This was the reaction. When the price approached for the second time, this level has already been tested. The volumes have already been tested. And generally speaking, you don't want to trade second tests. You only want to trade the first test. Okay? So that's why you shouldn't go long from here. Okay? So you need to pay close attention to the price as well, not just the volumes. Let me show you a couple of examples. So here we have a volume profile and many traders would just draw a resistance line like this in here, wait for pullback and attempt to go short from there. But if you look at it, there was that daily volume profile formed and the point of control formed here or the heavy volume zone formed here, whatever you like to trade. But then there was pullback and the price tested that heavy volume zone in here. This was the first test. Doesn't really matter if the trade would be successful or no, but this was the first test here. This is a second test. and you don't trade the second test. Okay? So, no short from this place. Now, let me show you this. This is a trending market and in that trending market, there were three significant volume clusters formed. Normally, you would be trading from all of those, right? Uh meaning long from here, long from here, long from here if it got the chance, if there was a pullback. But if you look closely, those weren't really viable trades. Let me start with this one. Those heavy volumes formed in this rotation, but then there was a pullback almost to the heavy volume zone and a reaction. So this heavy volume zone is spent. Now take a look at the second one. This one uh the heavy volumes here formed in this little rotation. Then the price went up. tested that heavy volume zone. See the edge of the heavy volume cluster or a little bit above it, but I count it as a test and boom, the price reacted and went up. So again, this was a test. That means that if the price makes pullback here, you don't go long from there because that would already be a second test, right? The volumes here got tested with this pullback here. Now let's take a look at the third volume cluster. This one, those heavy volumes formed in here. What happened next was that the price went up, but then there was that pullback. Price tested almost to that heavy volume zone was very very close and I personally would count that as a proper test. So this was the reaction to the heavy volume zone which is now spent. The volumes were tested, right? So when the price reaches into that heavy volume zone again in the future in here, you don't go long because this would already be a second test and it would be risky. Second tests are not as good trades as the first tests. Okay. Now this is the last example of the same thing. Take a look at this volume cluster here in this uh volume profile. Price goes up from that volume cluster. And normally many traders would just go long from here. But if you look closely then after those volumes got formed in this rotation price made a pullback to that area testing this volume cluster making a reaction. This is the first test. Okay. You can trade this, but you can't trade this because this would be the second test. The volumes are already tested. Okay? So, don't trade tested levels. Pay close attention to what the price is doing and whether volumes are tested or no because you only want to trade heavy volume areas which haven't been tested yet. Okay. Now, if you guys are interested in learning more about volume profile trading and getting your hands on my custommade trading indicators, you want to head over to my website. It is at traderdale.com. And if you click this button saying trading course, then it will take you to this page. Scroll down a bit and in here you can browse my trading education and customate indicators. There a couple of packs, volume profile pack, orflow pack, Viva pack, and smart money pack. You can get those separately in here or scroll down a bit and get a special discounted combo where I have all the four packs together in one huge pack only for $7.97. Okay, so that's about that. Thanks for watching the video. I hope you guys learned something new. I hope you found it interesting and I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time.
