How I Trade POC After Years of Volume Profile Trading
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wwf_XM31XIg

Hello everyone, it's Dale here. In this video, I'll show you how to trade the point of control. You know, I've been trading with volume profile for over a decade. And if you are a beginner trader starting with volume profile, then number one advice I would give you would be [music] to start with trading the point of control. The reason is that the point of control is the most important place on the volume profile. So today I'm going to show you how to go about [music] trading it. Point of control is the most important place on any chart. The reason for that is that through volume profile you basically track the big trading institutions right the big guys the guys who move and manipulate the markets right and the point of control the place where the heaviest volumes were traded. This is basically the place where the big trading institutions were most active where they placed the most of their trades, right? So that's the most important place on the chart and as you guys probably know institutions move the markets and if you guys know where they are positioned then I believe that you are ahead of 99% of retail traders. It's kind of interesting because professional traders so many of them almost majority of them I would say are using volume profile at least as some addition to their trading strategy. Institutional traders also use volume profile. Like this is a standard tool of a professional trader. But if you look at retail traders, not so many of them actually use volume profile. So what I'm trying to say is that even if you just place the volume profile on your chart, if you use simple daily profiles and you just look at where the point of control is, then if you do just this, you'll be still ahead of most retail traders. Now, here is a guide how exactly to trade the point of control. So the first step is identify the point of control. That's easy. That's where the volume profile is the widest, right? So it's this level. This is the point of control. Then you want to wait for the price to move away from the point of control. Let's say that it goes up and then you wait for a pullback. This is the pullback. And then you enter the trade at first touch. That means you go long from here. And you also want to trade only the first test. Right? That's at least how I trade this. I only traded the first test because in my opinion and experience uh they have higher probability of a successful reaction. Short trade scenario would be again uh you mark the point of control and if the price goes down from the point of control, you wait for the pullback and when the price hits the point of control, you go short. Right? This is the short trade scenario. Now what I actually do and what I currently prefer is an alternative method. It's very very similar only you don't place the trade entry at the point of control but at the beginning of the volume zone. Let me show you. uh because the way I look at it is that the support or resistance is not just the point of control line but it's the whole heavy volume zone where the point of control is. So in this case this would be a whole support or resistance zone. Let me do a little drawing here. This is the whole zone right? Support or resistance zone. Not just the point of control but the volumes around it too. So if the price goes up from there, makes a pullback, then I don't actually place my trade at the point of control line, but I place my trade at the beginning of that heavy volume zone, which is here. This is my long trade entry at this place. Uh the reason is that I started to notice that I'm missing many trades uh when I was trading from the point of control from that level. Exactly. I was missing a lot of trades. Many times the price just reacted a little bit sooner. So I started to place uh the level the entry level at the beginning of that heavy volume zone and my results improved a lot. So this is a little you know tweak uh to that strategy that I'm currently using and it works nicely for me. So this is long trade scenario. Uh short trade scenario would be if the price went down from that point of control made a pullback then the short would be from here from the lower border of that heavy volume zone. Right? So that would be the short. All right let's get to some examples. So first take a look at this volume profile. It has point of control in here. So let me draw a line there at the point of control. And what you do is you wait for the price to move away from that point of control. In this case it goes downwards. That means sellers are in control. So it was sellers who were active in here accumulating their short positions here. Then those sellers push the price downwards. And currently we have the information that at the point of control there are strong sellers, right? So we wait for the pullback. When the price hits the point of control for the first time, you hit the short and that's it. There's also one more here. Take a look at this profile. It has point of control right here. The price moves away from the point of control, makes pullback to it. And this is where you enter short. Right? So this is a short trade scenario now. Here we have a long trade scenario. Take a look at this daily volume profile. The point of control is right here. You draw the line and you need to see the price move away from the point of control. make a pullback to it and when it hits your level then you go long from there. All right. So that's the long trade scenario. From here you go long. Now in this example take a look at this volume profile right here. And the point of control is here. Now let me show you something. If you are trading from the point of control like this, then this would be the pullback. You'd be looking to go long from here. But as you can see, the price missed that. And this is actually what was happening to me so often. And that's why I started to trade from the beginning of the heavy volume zone. So the way I trade this is I place the level a little bit higher to the beginning of that heavy volume zone which would be somewhere in here and actually go long from this place. As you can see price hit that level and immediately went up. Right? So beginning of a heavy volume zone did the trick. All right. Now, this is the same chart only zoomed out a bit. And I want you to take a look at this profile. It has the point of control right here. And if I extend the point of control like this, then you can see that after the pullback, this would be where I would be looking for long. But yeah, the price just missed that. It would be missed trading opportunity. At that point, I would just discard the level. But as you now know, the way I trade this is I place the level at the beginning of a heavy volume zone. So it would be somewhere in here because this would be the area where the heaviest volumes were traded. So I would place my entry somewhere in here and it would be a winner. Right? So this is exactly why I've altered the strategy a bit so I don't miss trades like these. All right, let me now show you a couple of them to demonstrate how we uh trade the point of control. So, this is a recent trade we took on the ENQ. Um, take a look at this profile here. The point of control was right here and our level where we went long from was this line. The market opened with a gap. Then the price went up from that point of control, returned back. It was rather quick and from there reacted. We went long here and the price went up. The stop-loss placement regarding to the rules which I showed you uh should be in here in this low volume area. But what I've done instead, I placed it a little bit lower because I want the trade to breathe and I placed it below this uh low. So I placed the stop in here. And regarding the takerit, if you look at this volume profile, this one, this was the point of control, the place where the heaviest volumes were traded. And this was where I took the take profits, right? Because I didn't want to risk it. I didn't want to risk that the price will react to the point of control and go downwards again, right? So that's why the take profit was in here. As you can see, this is more or less riskreward ratio. one trade. My rule for this is that I want to trade at least with risk reward ratio one. All right, that's the minimum. So, this was risk- reorder ratio one trade and yeah, this is how it went. Uh let me show you one more. This is a trade which I took recently on the US dollar Japanese yen. This is a 30 minutes chart daily profiles. And if you look at this profile, then you know there's a point of control that stands out very nicely. This is the point of control. And again, I like to trade from the beginning of that heavy volume zone where the point of control was formed. So it was this level. The price moved away from that point of control, made a pullback, and this is where the price hit that level. And at first touch, this is uh where I went short. The stop loss for this trade was in a low volume area. It was in here. And the takerit was based on heavy volume zone standing in the way and it was this heavy volume zone. So that's why the takerit was in here. It was a trade with positive risk-to-reward ratio. So, it was quite a good trade. Okay, last one, last example. This is US dollar, Canadian dollar. And take a look at this profile here. This is where the heaviest volumes and the point of control was. I was trading from the beginning of that heavy volume zone. So, this was my trade entry. Went short from there. My stop was in here. If I extend this line, you can see that it was behind this heavy volume zone. So, behind this barrier. And regarding the takerit, I actually didn't have a heavy volume zone standing in the way. So, I was looking for some different barrier that would stand in the way of this trade. And uh there was a weekly VW up here. That's the blue line. So, I quit the trade when the price hit the weekly VWAP. By the way, VWAP is also a good place for uh taking profits like this. But uh that's another topic for another video. Uh this is how the trade went. This is where I took the profit. If I only had the patience, I would actually be able to quit the trade before it hit the first heavy volume barrier. The price actually reached this place. So, it would be like insanely nice trade if I managed to hold it that long. But, you know, I'm not like that. I probably wouldn't be able to hold that trade that long. So, that's why I was searching for a closer place where the quit the trade and it was the VWAP, right? If I had the patience, then I would, you know, follow the rules and just quit the trade when it hit the heavy volume zone in here for me. That would be probably just, you know, too much to handle.
