VOLUME PROFILE: The Ultimate Day Trading Guide (Full Training – Chapters 1–10)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nj2Gb-x7lIA

Hello everyone, it's Dale here and this is the ultimate guide on how to trade with volume profile. It is a complete training where you will learn everything that you need to know from A to Z. We will cover how to read volume profile properly. Volume profile shapes and how to use them to read the market. My core volume profile trading setups. How to improve those volume profile setups using price action. Where to place stop-loss and take-profit using volume profile. How to manage trades and how to control risk. How to use a trading journal and trading plan to improve and grow. And how to scale up and make your trading a proper business using prop firms. This will be a very detailed training and I'll do my best to make sure that every minute that you spend here is well spent. And let's get started with a trade that I took recently. And on that trade, I want to demonstrate everything that I'll teach you today and everything that you'll be able to implement into your own trading. All right, don't worry if you don't understand it. By the end of the video, you'll understand everything perfectly. All right, so here we go. Uh this is a chart that I was trading and I was trading from this heavy volume zone right here which represented a strong support. By the way, this was a Euro dollar 30 minutes chart and I was trading from this heavy volume zone. Then I was waiting for the price to reach that zone. So I was waiting for this pullback. When that occurred, I entered the long level here and went long from there. Now, as you know, it's not just about trading entries, but it's also about stop- loss placement, take-profit placement, and managing the trade. So, the way I went about trading this was that I went long from here, and my stop loss was right here. The reason for that stop-loss placement was because it was behind this heavy volume barrier, right? So, that's why the stop was in here. Now, regarding the takerit, I considered the shape of this volume profile right here and I used it to place the takerit. As you can see, this volume profile had a heavy volume zone in here and I used that heavy volume zone to place the takerit and I placed it at the beginning of this heavy volume zone which was in here. This was the takerit. As the trade progressed and moved towards my takerit, I secured the position and that means that I moved the stop loss from the original place which was in here. I moved it below the wick of this candle. So I moved the stop in here like this. So this was the new stop loss to secure my position. And yeah, this is how it played out. This is where the price reached the takerit and then it turned went uh went downwards. Now, as I was saying, don't worry if you haven't understood a thing from this because I'll teach you everything from scratch. Now, what I want to do now is a little quiz so you guys can tell where you are at right now. And at the end of the video or towards the end of the video actually, I'll do another quiz so you can see how you improved and what you learned. All right. So here we go. This is the quiz for you. So my question is look at the price and how it's dropping here. And I want you to tell me what to do next. Like if you want to go long from there or if you should go short or not to enter any trade at all. So I want you to think about this and tell me where the price is likely to go from now. Well, this isn't very easy, right? because the chart is rather hard to read here. There's one essential thing missing from it I would say and the thing is volume profile. So let me show you this. This is the same chart only with volume profile applied. And if you apply the volume profile, it immediately makes the chart easier to read and to understand. What you see here, the most important thing the volume profile shows here is this heavy volume zone. That means that somebody big was active here, right? And the price just went into that area, just hit the beginning of that heavy volume area, right? That means that this should act as a support and the price should react there like this. All right, so that was the first question from the quiz and I also have a second one and this is actually a trade from today. I was trading when I was doing this presentation. I was trading at the same time as well. And as I was doing the presentation, I actually entered a trade entered a trade on the euro and it was based on this heavy volume zone. I entered right here. So went long from there because of the heavy volume zone here. And there was just a smaller reaction when I took uh this screenshot here. But I want your help. I need you to tell me where to place my stop and where to place my takerprofit. How do I manage this trade? What do I do now? I entered the trade, but what do I do? So, that's my question to you. What do I do now? Uh let me tell you what I did. Okay. Uh my stop was here. Uh the reason was that it was behind this heavy volume zone and behind below this uh little swing point here. So that was my stop and uh regarding the takerit I was thinking about quitting the trade before the price reaches this heavy volume cluster because such a volume cluster could represent a resistance and the price could bounce off that. So I was thinking about taking profit here. What also came to my mind was taking profit here uh before the price reaches this heavy volume zone. So this was also an option but because there was a very very strong macronuse the ECB rate decision later today and I didn't really want to stay in that trade too long. Uh that's why I decided I'll just go for this takeprofit. I just wanted to be out of the trade quick before the macaron news hit. So that was the plan. Now let me show you how it all ended up. So this is the same chart only it's a little bit shifted maybe a little bit to the left so you can see the result. This was the trade entry long from here. This was the initial stop-loss and here was my takerit. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Now, it's not always rainbows and unicorns, unfortunately, when you trade. And I guess you know that what happened is that price went here and missed my takeprofit by 0.2 pips. And yeah, this sometimes happens. And I was a bit mad about it as you can imagine. uh but at that time because the price was already almost at my takerit I've secured my position secured by moving the stop here. So I was trading basically with no risk here and I quit the trade at break even right here and then there was the macro news boom but I'm not really trading in trades when there's such a strong macro news. So no matter where the price would be before the news, I would definitely quit the trade before the news. All right. So this is how it went. But uh you know the important thing which u my question was all about was the take-profit placement and the stop-loss placement. And again don't worry if you have no clue what I'm talking about because now we are going to take a deep dive into this and I'll show you everything from A to Z exactly how I trade with volume profile. Now, I haven't done a proper introduction yet. So, if you don't know me, I'll do that now and then we will jump right into it. Okay. So, as I was saying, I'm Dale and I'm trading since 2008. I founded a trader dale website where I teach people how to trade with volume profile nine years ago. And in those nine years, I wrote five books. Those are the books. the volume profile book, order flow book and the book on stock investing proper trading book and VWAP book. And what I wanted to say here is it's not really about the website or the courses or the books. The main reason why you guys should trust me and spend your precious time with me is because I deliver results and you can check that yourself. Since 2016, I've been publishing trade predictions on Trading View. By now, I've made over 1,500 predictions there. And if you go through them, you'll see that in long run, my strategy has 67% win rate. And that's without any money management, position management, nor any special rules. Now, you might think that 67% win rate is not that special, right? Many people claim to have more than that, but can you show me a person who can predict in advance where exactly the market will turn and do that consistently for 9 years? Anyways, apart from checking my trade predictions on Trading View, you can also take a look at what our members have to say about the course, about what I do, either on Trust Pilot where we have many fantastic reviews, majority of them fivestar reviews, or if you guys prefer a video, then you can check our website and check out some video testimonials. All right, so if you guys are still with me, let's talk about volume profile. Now volume profile looks like this. This is volume profile from trading view platform. And volume profile is essentially a histogram that shows volume at price. That means that it visually shows amount of volumes traded at each price level. The place where the volume profile is the widest that's in here that's called the point of control and it is the most important place on the volume profile right because the heaviest volumes were traded there that means that quite possibly big trading institutions were active here and they were trading there right that's why point control is so important now what I want to show you here is actually another indicator that people are using and it is volume up down indicator and it is this one. Here's a comparison of the volume up down indicator versus the volume profile indicator. And I'm showing you this because I want you to know the difference. The volume profile is showing volumes at price and the volume up down indicator is showing at what time heavy volumes were traded. So it's not volume at price as on the volume profile but this is volume at time and as you can see it shows for example here and in here or here in which candle the volumes were the heaviest. Now in my opinion volume profile gives us way more important information because for us traders it's more important at which price level the volumes were heavy and at which price level big trading institutions were active and they were trading rather than at what time they were active because you know the volume at time usually shows volume spikes at uh candles where there are macrones or start of a session or stuff which you can you know sort of tell even without looking at the volume at time. So that information in my opinion is not as important as the volume profile shows. All right. So that's the volume profile versus volume up down indicator. And uh there's one more comparison which I want to show you to make things completely clear and that's comparison between volume profile and market profile. On the left, this is the volume profile chart which shows volumes at time. On the right, this is market profile, which doesn't exactly show true volumes. If you look at them, they look pretty similar, but market profile doesn't show true volumes. What market profile does, it sort of draws an estimate how the volumes probably look based on how long the price was moving around a given price level. So for example here the price was rotating in this area that means the price stayed there for quite a long time and for that reason the market profile shows heavy volumes here. It's not actually volumes, but I'll call it volumes. All right. Um, it shows heavy volumes here because it sort of estimated that because the price was moving so long in here, many people were trading there and therefore there must be heavy volumes here. If you compare it with volume profile, it's not exactly true. As you can see, even though the price was here for a long time, there weren't heavy volumes traded there, right? Sometimes the market profile is right, sometime it's not right, sometime is very similar to volume profile, sometimes it's different like in this example. But if you guys have an option to trade with volume profile rather than market profile, then your choice should always be go for volume profile because this is true volumes. Market profile is just estimate of volumes which is not always true. Now, as you saw already, the volume profile uh can have many different shapes. There are four main shapes that you'll be seeing over and over in the charts. And what I want to do now is I want to talk about each of those shapes separately and show you what they tell us about the market, about the buyers and sellers, and how you can use them to read the chart and create sort of a bigger picture of what to actually expect. So those are the four main shapes. Uh we have the D-shaped profile which looks like a capital letter D. Then there is the B-shaped profile which looks like letter B. The P-shaped profile which looks like letter P. And then there's the thin profile which is simply a thin profile. So let me start with uh the D-shaped profile. Right? This is how it looks. As I was saying, it looks like a capital letter D. The most important place in this profile is the point of control, which is usually somewhere around the middle. And this shape of volume profile is by far the most common one. The reason is that it forms when the market is going sideways like this. When the markets go sideways, there is usually a D-shaped profile. Markets go sideways in around 70% of the time. Most of the time, the markets go in sideways. And for that reason, the most common profile is the D-shaped profile, right? What it tells us about the market is that the market is balanced. So if you look at this example here, you can spot D-shaped profiles here. Not all of them are perfect shapes of the letter D, but as you can see, they formed in a sideways price action. And they tell us that the market was balanced in this area. Everybody who was trading was sort of content with buying and selling in this area. So that's one thing that the D-shaped profile tells us and there's also another thing which it can tell us and that it can point us to an end or pause of the trend. So if you look at this example, the price was going upwards in an uptrend and then there was a D-shaped profile right here. That means balance. Before that the price was not really balanced. because it was rising. But then buyers and sellers were content about trading in this area. So the market became balanced. That could mean either end of the trend or just a pause of the trend. So that's what the D-shaped profile is telling us. Now let's talk about the P-shaped profile. The P-shaped profile looks like a letter P which means that it has heavy volumes at the top and low volumes at the bottom. There are two ways how it can form either like this. If you look at the price action then this is a strong rejection of lower prices. That means the price is dropping downwards and then shoots upwards again. So it can form like that or it can form in an uptrend like this. Okay, you can notice that in both those cases the volume profile looks like a letter P and it tells us one thing about the market and the thing is buyers are in control. Right? So when you see P-shaped profile then you should read it as buyers taking over. The P-shaped profile can tell us two things about the market. First thing is that the market is in an uptrend. As you can see here, we have an uptrend and we have couple of P-shaped profiles. This one, this one, this one. And the second thing that it can tell us about the market is that it can give us a hint about the end of a downtrend. Check this out. The price was dropping here in this downtrend and then there was a P-shaped profile and as I was saying B-shaped profile means buyers, right? So sellers are pushing the price downwards here. But then we have a sign of buyers. So that means that the downtrend could potentially be over or there could be just a pause of a downtrend or it could be over. So those are the two things that the P8 profile is telling us about the market. By the way, those profiles, those are daily profiles, right? Every day there's a new profile printed automatically on the chart. So we are looking at daily profiles. Now here is one important thing about the B-shaped profile. This is a proper P-shaped profile. When the price closes above 50% of the daily range, that's a proper P-shaped profile. If you look here, then this also sort of looks like a P-shaped profile. But because the price is closing below the 50% range, this is roughly 50% range. It's closing below it, then it's not really sign of buyers, right? It's not a sign of buyers. So, this is not a proper P-shaped profile. Only this one is. Okay? So, that's important. Now let's talk about the B-shaped profile. This one will be easy because it's the same as the P-shaped profile only it is reversed. So the B-shaped profile can form in two ways. Either like this when the price makes a rejection of higher prices and goes downwards. So that's one case how it can form or another scenario is that the price opens here the price is dropping and then creates some volumes in here. So this is also how the B-shape profile can form. All right. So it's either rejection of higher prices or a downtrend. Now what the B-shaped profile is telling us about the market? two things. Either that there is a downtrend. Check this out. B-shaped profile. B-shaped profile. B-shaped profile. That's one thing. Or an end of an uptrend. Here's an uptrend. Price is rising. But at the end, we have a B-shaped profile. B-shaped profile means sellers, right? Sellers jumped in in here and that means that the uptrend is probably over. So, B-shaped profile is either downtrend or end of an uptrend. Now, here is the important thing about the B-shaped profile. This is a proper B-shaped profile when the price closes below 50% of the daily range. So that means the B-shaped profile got formed in a downtrend. But if you look here, this also looks like a letter B. But this is not a B-shaped profile because the price closed above that 50% range because the price went up. So this is not a proper B-shaped profile. Only this one is. Now what remains is the last one and that's the thin profile. Thin profile signifies one thing and that's a strong trend very often caused by strong macronu or at least initiated by strong macronu. It usually doesn't have one huge heavy volume zone but it usually is rather thin with couple of volume clusters in it. The reason is that when the price moves so quickly, the big guys, the trading institutions, they don't have enough time to place their huge orders and their huge volumes that they trade with in that quick trend. So that's why the profile is thin because they don't have the time. The thing that it tells us about the market is that there is a strong and aggressive trend. Either buyers are in control and pushing the price aggressively upwards or sellers are in control and they're aggressively pushing the price downwards. Simply put, one side of the market is absolutely dominating the market, right? Either buyers or sellers. Now, let me do a very quick recap of the basic volume profile shapes before we move on. So, we covered the D-shaped profile which looks like a capital letter D and means balance, [clears throat] balanced market. Then there was the B-shaped profile which means sellers. Then there's the B-shaped profile which means buyers and we have a thin profile which indicates that there's a strong trend. Now people often ask me what time frame is best to use with volume profile and with the strategies that I teach. The cool thing about volume profile is that it is not so much time dependent as other strategies because it doesn't really matter if you have volume profile and the time frame behind it is five minute chart or 30 minute chart because you are interested in volumes not in candles. So you know what let me show you that will be the easiest way how to demonstrate this. So here is EUR dollar chart and what I'll do here I'll just use one profile here and use it for example like this and now you're looking at a 30 minute chart of the Euro dollar right this is a 30 minute time frame now if I switch let's say to a 15minut time frame then as you can see the volume profile looks exactly the same only there is double the number of candles. But since we are trading with volume profile and our strategies are based on volume profile shapes, it doesn't really matter too much how the candles look, right? So that's why you can actually trade with volume profile like you can use more or less any time frame that you prefer. If you are intraday trader then I would say from one minute time frame to 60 minute time frame anywhere in between is quite okay by me. I'm used to 30 minute time frame. So all the charts which I'm going to show you today will be on the 30 minute time frame but you know that's just my preference. I've been trading the 30 minute time frame for over a decade. So yeah that's for the time frame. Let's go back to the presentation. Now, another thing that I wanted to mention here are instruments that are good for trading with volume profile. My focus is on trading currencies mostly major currencies. That means Euro dollar, the Australian dollar, US dollar, US dollar, Canadian dollar, British pound, Japanese yen, Swiss Frank and indices. I like to trade the ES and the ENQU. So this is my focus. But the cool thing about volume profile, it's very universal. And the setups which I'm going to show you are universal too. So you can use it and apply it to anything that you like to trade. So could be for example other indices or many different futures or stocks or even crypto. Doesn't really matter. This is universal. Okay? So the volume profile is not one of those indicators that would only work on something and not on anything else. But you know this is universal, so you can apply it to anything you like. Now what I want to do next is go over my volume profile setups. I'll show you how those setups work from A to Z. So you'll be able to trade them exactly as I do. One thing before that I want to show you my workspace because there is one important thing on that workspace that I really need to show you before we jump into those setups. So this is my intraday trading layout. I don't have many different windows here only you know this one where I fit everything together. It is a 30 minute time frame and what I have here is weekly volume profile. Those weekly volume profiles automatically print every week. So I know what the big picture is. But the main thing here is a flexible volume profile. That's this. And that's profile that I can move around and look into specific areas that I'm interested in. And that's the most important thing I want to show you here. That's the flexible volume profile because this is not a standard tool, but it's super handy and it's by far my most favorite indicator. All right, so that's the flexible volume profile. I can use more of them if I need. So I'll be working with a flexible volume profile and I'll be showing you those setups using that flexible volume profile. All right, so that's the main thing which I wanted to show you. The rest is just indicator that shows fair value gaps highlighting them in red or in green. We'll talk about the fair value gaps a little bit later. And also there's uh VWAP with its first deviations. I won't be covering VWAP in this webinar because even without VWAP we have so much content to cover. So that's why I won't cover VWAP in this video. All right. So that's how the workspace looks like and let's now delve in into the setups. All right. So what I want to cover now is my first volume profile setup that I started to trade and it's still one of my most favorite setups. It's called the volume accumulation setup. And here is how it goes. First step is you need to look for a rotation which is followed by a trend. So if you look at this example, we have a rotation and that rotation is followed by a trend. This is the trend, right? Strong initiation activity starting from that rotation. That's the trend. That's the first step. All right. The second step is you want to use the flexible volume profile over that area, over that rotation and also the trend area. And you want to identify heavy volume zone in the rotation. You need to make sure that there is a heavy volume zone there like in here like this one. So that's the second step. Now the third step is you draw a line from the beginning of the heavy volume zone. So in here it would be a line from here the beginning of the heavy volume zone. and then you wait for a pullback and enter the trade. In this case, this is a short trade scenario because the price went downwards from that heavy volume zone. The price went downwards. That means that you'll wait for pullback and you'll want to go short. Okay, that's how a short trade scenario of the volume accumulation setup looks like. The logic behind this is that somebody big was placing orders there. We don't know if it was buyers or sellers. But because the price dropped from this place, we can make an estimated guess that those were sellers who are entering their short positions in here, accumulating their short position positions here before pushing the price aggressively downwards in or in other words before manipulating the price to shoot downwards. Right? So because the price went downwards, we can tell that those were big sellers getting ready. Okay, wait for pullback and when the price reaches this place, price is supposed to drop. And the reason is that the sellers, the big institutional sellers who are accumulating their short positions here, they're likely to defend this place because in the past this was important place for them because they placed a lot of their short orders there. You can see that on the volume profile they were very active there. For that reason, they're likely to push the price downwards from there again. Right? That's the logic behind this setup. Now, let me show you a couple of more examples of this. Here is a long trade scenario. So, the first step is identify a rotation followed by a trend. Second step is use the volume profile to look into this area and to tell if there were heavy volumes traded there. Usually there are because in rotation big trading institutions are usually placing their orders because they have huge capital, huge amounts of money and they need to place those orders and that capital into the market slowly and unnoticed without moving uh the price too much. So that's why in rotations there are usually heavy volumes. So anyways that's the second step identifying the heavy volume zone there. Then the third step is you draw the line from the beginning of a heavy volume zone and in this case this is a support because this is a long trade scenario, right? The price went up from that heavy volume zone. So we can tell that those were buyers, big institutional buyers accumulating their longs and pushing the price up and then you wait for the pullback and when it occurs you go long from there. People often ask me how long do I wait for that pullback like if it matters if it's like a day old or week old heavy volume zone or if there's any amount of time after which I just you know delete those levels for the intraday trading levels I would say that levels that are older than a month if they are not super strong like for example based on weekly point of control or something like that I delete But if it's just a week or two or even three, then it's fine. You know, markets in my experience have great memory. They remember those levels, those heavy volume zones, and they react to them even if they are two or three weeks old. And I feel like the older the level, the better the reaction. Sometimes really it is like that. Sometimes it's sometimes I see a super old level and market reacts like to the pip and massive reaction. So yeah, markets do have a great memory. Um, okay, let me show you a couple of more examples of this. Again, this is the volume accumulation setup. This is a short trade scenario. We have a heavy volume zone here from which price drops dramatically. So what you do here is draw a line from the beginning of that heavy volume zone. Right? So this would be that line. That's the short level. When the price reaches that, you go short and you trade only the first touch. In my experience, first touch always has the best reactions. All right? So only the first touch. And you know the way I trade this, most of my trades are limit orders. So when the setup gets formed, I place a limit and I just wait for the price to reach that level. I only withdraw the limits if there is upcoming macro news. So I don't get stuck in a super volatile market because that would be super risky even with volume profile or any other pro indicator right because during macro news also go crazy and you can't really tell what the outcome will be so I'm not trading in trades during strong macro news. All right onto the next setup. The next one is trend setup. I would say that the trend setup is my number one most favorite setup. I trade it when there is a trend. That's why it's called the trend setup. And here is how it goes. First step, look for a strong trend like in here. This is a strong trend. Second step is use flexible volume profile to look into volumes in that trend. So that's why the volume profile, the flexible volume profile is so important because it's not like daily profiles or weekly profiles which are fixed on the chart. But the flexible volume profile, you can move it around and you can select only the areas you are interested in. So in this case, I'm only interested in how the volumes were developing in that trend. Right? So that's why I say that the flexible volume profile is so powerful and so important to have that. Anyways, you use the flexible volume profile to see how the volumes were distributed in that trend. And what you look for are significant volume clusters. Volume cluster is for example this. This is if you look at it, it's easy to tell, right? This is the most important volume cluster in that uptrend. So you identify that volume cluster or you know if there are more strong volume clusters in that volume profile, you can trade more of them. It's not it's not just trading the biggest one. If there are more strong ones, you can obviously take more trades. But in this case, what stands out is definitely this one. So what you do is you draw a line from the beginning of that volume cluster. So this is the volume cluster and since we are looking at an uptrend, then this is what I call the beginning of the volume cluster, right? like the higher border of it and that's your support. And what you do is you wait for a pullback and go long from there. Again, simple limit order will do. And that's the long trade scenario of the trend setup. Now, let me show you another one. Here we have another strong uptrend. within that uptrend we have significant volume cluster right here. So once you identify that first the uptrend then the significant volume cluster then you want to trade from the beginning of that volume cluster since this is a long trade scenario. So this is the beginning of that volume cluster that's your long level. If you want, you can just set a limit order there. Wait for the price to hit that level and go long from there. All right, that's the trend setup. Now, another long trade scenario. Sorry for not having a short trade scenario. I haven't really realized up until now that I don't have any short trade scenario of this, but it is completely the same thing only reversed. So, I hope that it's clear enough for you guys. Anyways, uh here we have a strong uptrend. Within the uptrend, the most significant volume cluster would be this one. So again, you draw a line from the beginning of it and when the price makes the pullback, you go long. All right. By the way, as you can see, there's also, for example, this volume cluster, and the price also made a nice reaction to it. As I was saying, it's not just about the strongest volume cluster. You can trade multiple of them if they are good enough. All right? Or if you find good confluencies. I'll talk about that later. It's another topic that we are going to cover today. So that was the trend setup. The third setup that I want to talk about is a setup which I call the rejection setup. I call it rejection setup because I trade it when I spot a strong rejection. What you see here on the chart, this is a sharp rejection of higher prices. That means that the price was going aggressively up and then sellers took over and completely reversed the course and the price went down. So this is a strong rejection, right? So you want to spot this ideally if a rejection is in a market which is rotating, right? That's the best place to trade those rejections when the price is moving like this in a rotating market. Rejection like this or rejection like this are viable candidates for uh good trades. So step number one is to identify a strong rejection. Step number two is you use the flexible volume profile to see how volumes were distributed there in that rejection. See again another reason why the flexible volume profile is so important because you can look only into the area where you are interested in trading. Right? So you can look specifically into that rejection and see how volumes were distributed in that rejection. very very important. So the third step is that there needs to be a significant volume cluster in that rejection. In this example, it is this significant volume cluster and it should be close to the place where the price turned. So if the heavy volume zone was for example here, you don't trade this, right? You want to see significant volume cluster somewhere around the place where the price turned. Why? Because it shows place where somebody big jumped in. So if you look at this example, buyers were pushing the price up, right? What happened here is that this is the place where sellers started to jump in and eventually they push the price downward. So this is the most important place where the sellers jumped in. Right? So that's why you want to see the volume cluster somewhere around the place where the price turned. This is the most important place for the sellers. That's why the price reacts there. The most important place for the sellers is not here. It's not the high. It's the heavy volume cluster. All right? when most of the volumes before the rejection took place. That's why it's so important. So what you do when you spot this is you draw a line from the beginning of that volume cluster. So in this case it would be a line like this one and wait for pullback. This is the pullback. This is where you go short again. You can use limit order. So that's the short trade scenario. The logic behind this is that the sellers from here should defend this place because in the past it was important for them. You can see that on the volume profile that they placed huge volumes there. So it is important place for sellers and those sellers should become active when the price reaches this place again. Right now the reason why I'm always trading from the beginning of the volume cluster or from the beginning of a heavy volume zone is you know actually in the past I was trading from the heaviest volume peak like in this case it would be from here I noticed that I was missing a lot of trades like in here price simply turned before my level when I was trading like this. Then I found out that if I move the level to the beginning of the heavy volume zone, I won't miss as many trades. Right? So I made a little change to my strategy. Maybe if you guys found some very old videos on YouTube where I show this strategy, then maybe in those videos I'm still talking about trading from the heaviest volume zone, from the peak of the volume cluster. But now I'm trading from the beginning like here. As you can see in this case, this would be a perfect trade. If we were trading from here, we would miss a nice trade. All right. So that's the reason that's the reason why I altered the strategy a bit. So yeah, that's the short trade scenario of that rejection setup. Here is another one. We have a sharp rejection of higher prices. If you look at the chart, it screams at you that this is the most important place on the chart, right? Because this is where the trend completely changed. First step is noticing that easy. Second step, identifying the significant volume cluster. So again, you use the volume profile, the flexible volume profile over the rejection area and you want to see a significant volume cluster somewhere around the high of that rejection. Right? Next step is just print a line or place a limit order there, wait for pullback and go short. That's how we go about trading the short trade scenario of this rejection setup. Now here we have a long trade scenario. So if you look at this then you can see that there was a strong rejection of lower prices that means that there were aggressive sellers pushing the price downwards and then buyers started to jump in and here this is the volume cluster this one where the buyers start to jump in reversed that sell off into a uptrend. All right. So, this is a strong rejection of lower prices with significant volume cluster right here. This is the beginning of the volume cluster and your long level. So again, you wait for a pullback and go long from there from the beginning of that volume cluster. Right? In the long trade scenario, the beginning of the volume cluster is here. And that's it. That's the third setup, the rejection setup. Now, [snorts] one thing that I want to say about this setup, if you can't spot a significant volume cluster within the rejection, then simply skip it. Don't take the trade. Don't force trades. Right? There needs to be a volume cluster that strikes you in the eye, that stands out, that really shows you the place where buyers or sellers stepped in. And you can clearly see that on the volume profile. If you don't, then just skip the trade, right? Don't trade it. There needs to be a clear place like here. Now, let's be honest. Those volume profile setups are great, but they don't work 100% of the time. Nothing does. What I want to show you here is what you can do if your trade fails and if you get stopped out. Because there is a way how to get your money back. And you would be surprised how often this actually works. So let me show you. This is called reversals. You use reversal trade when a level fails. So take a look at this example. We have a volume accumulation setup. That's the setup number one that I was showing you. We have a rotation followed by a trend. So what you do is you draw the line here at the beginning of the heavy volume zone and that's your short level. Next step is wait for the pullback. Go short from there. Boom. You just got stopped out. And here comes the reversal. You take that level, that short level, exactly the same level. But now because the price went past it, it's no longer a resistance, but it is a support, right? It is a new support. Exactly the same level. You wait for the price to reach that level and enter the reversal, which in this case is long because first you went short. That didn't work. You got stopped out. So then you enter long. As you can see, we have a beautiful reaction here. And that's the reversal. You'll be surprised how many times this will actually save your day. You know, those volume profile levels are very, very strong levels. And it very rarely happens that the market just shoots past them with no reaction at all. When this happens, the market is giving you a signal that in this case buyers are way stronger than sellers and they are so strong that they simply ignored this super strong level. Yeah, they ignored it. The buyers pushed through but very very often they make a pullback to that level to get some liquidity. So very often you get the chance to jump in again and very often you need to be quick. So don't think twice about trading those reversals because very often you do get the chance but for just a moment right so that's my experience. So just a you know set a limit order here for a long and go long from there from the same level. That's the reversal. Let me show you a couple of more examples here. So what you see here is a downtrend and within the downtrend you can see that there was a significant volume cluster right. So that's the trend setup and that's the short trade scenario of it. So this is the level you print on the chart you wait for pullback and from this place you go short. Tough luck, loser. Price goes up. Boom. So, it's time for a reversal. Wait for pullback from the exact level. You go long like this. And this just saved your day, right? That's the reversal. I would say that the most challenging thing about this is actually here because you sort of need to shift your initial opinion about the market because initially you thought that this is a great idea to go short, right? But now you need to shift and think about going long from the same level, right? So very often it's tough to pull the trigger to enter the reversal because your head is still in the mode that I should be right the price should drop right but you know um practice makes perfect so you need to practice and here's a thing which I also wanted to tell you if you want to practice then don't practice on demo demo is just good for getting to know the platform but not for practicing. If you want to practice, then you might want to use micros or very small positions where you simply risk couple of cents or a dollar per trade, but you trade with real money because real money means real emotions, right? And you will learn way more than uh trading on a demo. So, if you want to train, do it, but not on a demo, but on a real account. Anyways, here is another example of a reversal trade. Last example of it. So, we have a volume accumulation setup because there's a rotation where heavy volumes were formed. By the way, volume accumulation setup, that's the number one uh setup which I was showing you. Right? So, we have that heavy volume zone here from there. Strong trend activity. Looks I would say like a good setup right here. So this level looks like a solid level to go long from, right? So long from there. Unfortunately, as you can see, the price makes pull back to the level but shoots past it. No reaction at all. So it's time for the reversal, right? The same level only reversed position. So it is a short from here and as you can see another beautiful reaction exactly to the pip. By the way one thing about the reversal trades the best reversals are always if there is super strong heavy volume zone and the price moves past it like it wasn't there. Like if there is no reaction at all and price just go whoosh past that then those are the best reversals. All right, so let's now do a little recap of those three main volume profile setups before we move on. All right, so we covered the volume accumulation setup which looks like this. There is a rotation where heavy volumes are formed followed by a trend. You wait for the pullback and trade from the beginning of the heavy volume zone like this. This is a short trade scenario of the volume accumulation setup. Then we covered the trend setup. You trade that when the market is trending like here. You use the flexible profile over the area where the market was trending. And don't worry, it doesn't really matter if you move the profile like this or if you move it maybe a little bit to the right like this or doesn't really matter because it will always point to you to the right spot to the it will always show you the heavy volume zones no matter like if you move a little bit more to the right or to the left. So don't worry about that. Anyways, you identify the heavy volume zone, wait for pullback and enter a trade in the direction of that trend. All right, like this. And the third setup, that's the rejection setup. You need to see a strong rejection with significant volume cluster, wait for the pullback, and trade from that volume cluster. And that's about it. the main three volume profile setups that I like to trade and everything I do sort of revolves around them. Now, at this point, I'd like to say thank you for sticking so long with me and watching this webinar. So, I want to give you a little gift. If you guys are from the US, I'll send you one of my books. Either the volume profile book, or flow book, stock investing book, the prop firm trading book, or the VWAP book. I'll send you the paperback copy, physical book. I will even cover the shipping. So, there will be absolutely no cost included, no catch included. Just fill in the form below this video and I'll send you the book as a little thank you for sticking with me and being here on this webinar. All right, so let us continue. Let me show you how you can improve those setups even more by two simple price action setups. The first setup that I'm going to show you is the fair value gap from smart money concepts. I borrowed that and I use it with volume profile. And the second concept is support resistance flip which is super super old price action trick which I really like to use. Let's start with the fair value gap. As I was saying, the fair value gap is concept from smart money trading and essentially it is a formation of three candles. Here is how bullish fair value gap looks like. So as you can see it is formation of three candles. One, two, three. And the thing is that there needs to be a gap between the high of the first candle and the low of the third candle. This is it. This is what's called the fair value gap, right? And it doesn't really matter if the first or third candle are bullish or bearish. Important thing that there's this gap. All right. So that's the fair value gap and this is a bullish scenario. What I like to do is I consider this line the beginning of the fair value gap a support. So I like to trade longs from there. Right? So this is the bullish fair value gap. Bearish fair value gap is the same only reversed. So we have three candles. one, two, three. And if the low of the first candle and the high of the third candle don't overlap, then you have a bearish fair value gap there. This whole area is the fair value gap. And I like to trade from the beginning of the bearish fair value gap, which is here. Now, let me show you on the chart. So this is a simple price action chart. In here you can see a beautiful fair value gap, a bullish fair value gap. This is candle number one. Then there's candle number two here and this is candle number three. And the fair value gap is here. This is the fair value gap. As you can see the price slowly fills the gap. But where I trade from is this level. And this is the beginning of the bullish gap and that's a long for me. Right? So when the price reaches here it's a long from there. Now the bigger the gap the better. If there is just a small gap I don't really consider it a strong signal. For example here there is a there's gap right there or right here there's also a gap. I don't reconsider those um gaps that I would trade. I look for the big ones. If they are caused by macronuse, all the better. Okay, let me show you one more. This is a bearish scenario. So, take a look at here. This is candle number one. Then there's candle number two. This is candle number three. And here is the fair value gap. All right. So if you are trading just the fair value gap, you would wait for the pullback and wait for the price to close the gap, fill the gap completely in here. And in a short trade scenario, this is the place from which I go short. Now I'm not trading this blindly. I'm combining the fair value gaps with volume profile. Very often I'm able to spot a place where heavy volume zone aligns with fair value gap and those levels are very strong levels. I would say like 90 or at least 80% of all my trades have heavy volumes and fair value very gaps in them. Right? So I really strive to find this combo for my trades because the win rate is way better than trading just with volume profile or just fair value gaps. So anyways, what you see here is actually two examples in one picture. Two good examples here. The first thing I want to show you here is this heavy volume cluster followed by this trend. So this is the volume accumulation setup, right? Normally you would just, you know, place the level at the beginning of that heavy volume zone and trade pull back to that. If there is a fair value gap, then it's even better. So this is the fair value gap. It sort of got partly tested here, but it hasn't got properly filled yet up until this point. Right. And this black line here, which you see, is where I would place the level. Exactly where I would place the level because I really like to place the level at the beginning of the fair value gap. I look for places where the beginning of the heavy volume zone aligns with the beginning of the fair value gap. Right? Let me repeat that. This is very very important. The beginning of the heavy volume zone needs to be at the same level. It needs to align with beginning of the fair value gap like in this case. And when they align that represent a strong level in this case a strong resistance. Let me show you the second example on this chart. There's another strong fair value gap is in here and the beginning of the fair value gap is here. Right now, if you look at this heavy volume zone, if I was trading this, I wouldn't be really sure like without the fair value gap, if I was only looking at volumes, I wouldn't be really sure if I want to trade from the beginning of this heavy volume cluster like this or if you look at it as one big volume cluster and trade from this place. I wouldn't be really sure. But since I have that fair value gap here, I know that I want to trade from here because the beginning of this bigger volume cluster align with the beginning of the fair value gap. Now, it doesn't need to be exactly the same spot exactly to the pip, but you know, more or less the same area. So, when they align, it is a strong signal to entry or trade from there. Now here is another example of this. This is a bullish scenario. We have a trend setup. We have a significant volume cluster in here. So normally you would just you know print a line here and wait for pullback and go long from there. But in this case we have this beautiful confluence because there's also a big fair value gap. See this is it and this is the beginning of it. So this is the spot from which I would go long. By the way, most of those examples or I would say maybe even all of them are actual trades that I actually took. So those are not just ideal scenarios which I picked from the chart, but those are real trades which I was trading. I remember trading this one. It wasn't too long ago. So yeah. Anyways, this is the level exact level from which to go long, right? I like to place the level exactly at the place where the fair value gap starts. So that's here and this is the reaction to it. Now another bullish scenario is here on this fair value gap and trend setup example. Here is the trend setup. This is a significant volume cluster within the trend. And there's also a fair value gap. This is the fair value gap. And in bullish scenario, I trade from here from the beginning of it. As you can see again, it nicely aligns with the beginning of the volume cluster. So everything's good. We have a good signal, a good combo of signals actually. So wait for the pullback here. The gap gets filled and boom, here is our reaction. Now one last example. And in here I want to show you how to combine the rejection setup with the fair value gap. The strongest rejection setups are rejections where you have fair value gap in them. So this is the fair value gap because this is a bearish scenario. The beginning of the fair value gap is in here. And as you can see at the same time it is at the same place where the volume cluster begins. Right? So again, beautiful combo. Wait for pullback and short from there. This is how the rejection setup and the fair value gap combo is supposed to look like. Now, another price action setup that I like to use with volume profile is the support resistance flip. Let me show you how it works on a simple price action chart and then we'll add volume profile to it. Here is how it goes. Have you ever heard that if there is a strong resistance, it turns into a support when the price goes past that resistance? That's very very old thing, right? So take a look at here. This line represents a strong resistance because the price was reacting here and here to it. And because of those reactions, we can tell that this was a strong resistance in the past. Right? What happened next is that the price went past that resistance and when it went past it, that resistance turned into a support. So the same level is now a support and that's why it's called support resistance flip, right? Because resistance became a support and the price reacts [snorts] to that support and that's the whole thing, right? That's the whole setup. I'm sure that you heard about it because this is like the basic price action thing. Let me show you one more example here before we add volume profile to it. And this is a bearish scenario. Now here we have a very strong reaction. That means that this level worked as a support. When the price blew past it, that support turned into a resistance, right? So, it is a resistance and when the price hits that resistance from below, there should be a reaction, right? This is how it's supposed to look like. Now, the more reactions in the past to the level, the better. But even if it's one, I count it as a proper confirmation. All right. Now, let me show you how to use this with volume profile. I'm combining this only with the trend setup because that's really just the one setup you can combine this with. Uh here we have a downtrend and in that downtrend you can see that there is a significant volume cluster. Right? That's the trend setup. Now another thing to notice here is that the price reacted to this level the beginning of the volume cluster in the past that means that in the past it worked as a support right this level or this area it doesn't need to be to the pip right just general area worked as a support and now when the price blew past that support forming those heavy volumes here by the way that turned into a new resistance. Right? So, this is a new resistance. That means that we have significant volume cluster here and we have this price action setup that adds strength to the volume cluster because it points to the same resistance level as the volume cluster. Cool, right? So, this is how you can combine it. One more thing, a little bonus. If you can see it, I'm not sure, but it's rather detailed in here. There's also a fair value gap. So, not only we have the volume cluster, we have the support becoming resistance setup, but we also have a beginning of a fair value gap here. All the setups combined, the two price action setups and one volume profile setup. This is a perfect trade. This is how the price reacted to that level. By the way, in this picture, I wanted to show you how the price reacted to that exact level. But in real trading, I would be more careful. And if the price turn a little bit before the level, let's say maybe three pips before the level, like for example here, I would discard the level. I wouldn't trade it because I would count this as a reaction to the level and I would consider the level spent. All right? But for the purpose of this video, I wanted to show you this example where all the setups nicely aligned and created a strong resistance. As you can see the price was respecting that many times. So let's go for the next example. And here again we have a strong trend. Within the trend we have a significant volume cluster. And if you look here and also here the price was reacting to this area in the past. That means that it was a strong support. This area was a strong support up until this point where the price blew past that support turning the support into a new resistance. Right? So again, we have a beautiful combo of volume profile setup, the trend setup and the price action setup, the support resistance flip. So wait for the pullback and short from there. Now, here's another example. We have a trend. Within that trend, we have a significant volume cluster and we have this this beautiful reaction means that this was a resistance in the past. And when the price blew past that resistance, it turned into a new support. As you can see, it beautifully aligns with that volume cluster here. And that's why you wait for the pullback and go long. from this level. Now, here's the thing which I wanted to mention on this volume profile. There are also a couple of volume clusters. This one or this one. The reason why I chose to trade this one. This was by the way a real trade. Uh the reason why I chose this one is because of that combo. Right? If there are multiple volume clusters and I'm not sure which one to trade and I don't want to trade all of them, then I trade the one which has a combo like this one. volume profile plus price action combo, right? Because it makes the volume cluster way stronger. Even if the volume cluster is not the strongest volume cluster, right? If this volume cluster was even smaller, not the biggest volume cluster among those volume clusters. If it was even smaller then I would still pick it to be the level to trade because it's not just about how big the volumes were there but also about the confluencies right so this is how I go about trading this and about choosing the best volume cluster to trade now here's one last example of this we have a strong trend within the trend we have a volume cluster and that volume cluster is even stronger because we have that resistance turning into support setup here. As you can see, this is the same thing over and over again. In this case, what's beautiful about this is that we also have a fair value gap. The fair value gap being here and the beginning of that fair value gap is right here. That's my long level. All right, as you can see, reaction was to the pip because we have beautiful combo of volume profile setup and two price action setups. And you'll be surprised how many times you'll be able to find this combo. It's not rare to see this combo. Those actually happen more often than you would think. So, what we'll cover now is take profit and stop-loss placement. You know, having a good strategy regarding stop-loss placement and take-profit placement can very very often and more often than you would think mean difference between losing trade and a winning trade. So, let me cover that. There are two rules that you need to follow and that you need to remember. One rule about stop-loss placement. Second rule about take-profit placement. So the rule about stop-loss placement is that the stop needs to go behind a barrier. In most cases, I would say like 90% of cases, that is a heavy volume zone, right? That's the barrier. So if you look at this trade where we have the trend setup here is the pullback you go long from there then the barrier is that heavy volume zone and it should hold right this is the barrier that should hold. you place the stop behind that barrier because if that barrier doesn't hold, if the price goes past that barrier, then at this point there's really no point in holding that trade because the price went past the barrier. Trade is over. The barrier did not hold. All right? So, the heavy volume zone is the barrier and the stop needs to go behind the barrier. Stop loss goes behind a barrier. Now, regarding takeprofit, it's the opposite. Take profit goes before the price reaches the barrier. If you look at this example, then we have a heavy volume zone here. And this place where the volumes were the heaviest is the barrier. This is the barrier. And you want to quit the trade before it fully hits the barrier. So you want to quit the trade in here. This is the takerit right here. Because when the price reaches the barrier, there is a risk that the barrier will work as a resistance and the price will turn. Right? That's why you want to quit the trade before it reaches barrier. Right? So take profit goes before barrier. Stop loss goes behind barrier. Now regarding the take-profit placement, there's one good question and the question is how do I spot the barrier? Where is the barrier? Like what you need to do is you need to look into the area where the price is dropping towards your level. you should be interested in volumes in that area and from that area you identify the heavy volume zone as the barrier. Right? So that's how you do it. I'll show you a couple of more examples so this is more clear. So in this example we have a trend setup. We have a heavy volume zone here. This is the level from which you go long. Stop loss goes behind the barrier. That means behind heavy volume zone. I also like to place a stop below a little swing points in that rotation where the level is based on or where the heavy volumes were traded. So I would place it here exactly at the low of this little swing point, right? But it always needs to be behind uh the heavy volume barrier. So that's why the stop loss is here. And regarding the takerit, you should be interested in this area where the price was dropping towards your level where it made that pullback towards that level. So you use the flexible volume profile here and look into the volumes how the volumes are distributed in that area where the price was dropping. And in this case, this would be a strong barrier standing in the way of your long trade. So if you go long from here and hold your long then when the price reaches this place you are risking that the price will react to this barrier. You are risking that the price will do this completely ruining your trade. So that's why you want to quit the trade before the barrier. Right? Heavy volume zone is always a barrier. Right? Remember that. So that's why the takeprofit goes here. By the way, with all my trades, I aim to have riskreward ratio at least one, but ideally more than one. If the barrier is closer than riskreward one, then I would just trade riskreward one. I would take the trade behind the barrier and pray that the barrier will not hold. Right? But the riskreward needs to be at least one. Ideally more like in this case this was like two and a half maybe. So yeah another example we have a volume accumulation setup here because there is a rotation where heavy volumes were traded followed by a strong trend. So we have a short level here. This is the short and stop goes behind the barrier. This being the barrier. So the stop goes behind that. This is the stop-loss and the takerit. You need to wait for the pullback. So you can see how the volumes were distributed in that pullback to be able to tell where the take profit will be. Right? So when you are placing that trade initially when you are placing that limit order you only know where the trade entry is going to be and you only know where the stop loss is going to be at that time when this formation gets formed. You don't know where the take profit will be. So what I do when placing those limit orders I just place the takerit at riskreward ratio one. So I'm getting the same as I'm risking but when the price approaches the level I change the takerit and I move it before the barrier. Right? So this is the place where the price was moving towards our resistance. That's why I was interested how volumes were distributed in this area. And as you can see, it pointed me to this significant volume cluster which is a barrier, right? And now you know that I take the profit at the beginning of the barrier which is in here. The reason is that there is a high risk that the price will react to the heavy volume barrier and it would ruin my trade if I hadn't quit it in here. In this case, didn't happen, but the risk was there. Okay, here's one more example of this. We have a volume accumulation setup here because there's the rotation with heavy volumes here followed by the downtrend. So, this black line, that's a short trade entry. By the way, notice that it is the beginning of the fair value gap. a small fair value gap but still that's where I placed that level and the stop goes it needs to be behind the barrier and as I was saying I like to place it at a little swing point so this is the little swing point which at the same time is behind the barrier so that's why the stop is here so entered the short here and I was searching for a place to quit the trade in this case there wasn't a significant volume cluster there and that means that I was searching for something else some different barrier what I noticed here was the simple price action setup which I showed you the support resistance flip right check this out price made reaction here also here also here that's telling us that this level was a strong resistance in the past right the price went past turning that resistance into potential support and because the price reacted three times here I knew that this was important level so that's why I quit the trade in here as you can see the volume profile simply doesn't show any significant volume cluster to quit the trade and at this point I was already at risk reward ratio too so I wanted to quit the trade and I was simply searching for a place where to do it and This look like the best place to do so. By the way, I was really proud about this trade when I took it because I managed to catch the high of this little pullback. Also quitted the trade at the low of this pullback. So yeah, I remember taking this trade and I was quite proud about that one because it's not always perfect trade entry and also perfect trade exit. You know how it goes. So, what I want to cover now is position management. And it's not going to be too difficult. There's just one rule that you need to follow. I'm going to demonstrate this on this same example that I've just showed you. Um, the thing is that you need to secure your position when the price starts to move in your favor. At this point, the price hit that resistance and started to move downwards. When the price makes it around 70% of its way to the takerit, then I move the stop-loss. And the way I move the stop- loss, I don't move it to break even. Many people move the stop loss to break even. I don't do that. I place the stop loss at the reaction point. The reaction point is here. That's the place. Let me delete all that so you can see better. The reaction point was in here because this was the highest point of that reaction. So that's where you move the stop. I don't move the stop to the break even because in my experience sometimes they just want to hit that straight entry level again and then make the reaction. So many times I got stopped out just because of that and securing the position by moving the stop to reaction point simply in my experience proved to be the better approach. Let me show you another example of this. So in here this is again a trade which we've covered already so I won't cover it again just you know the position management. So here is where the price hit my long level started to react to it and as the price was reaching towards the takerit when it was around 75% of this move that's when you want to secure the position by moving the stop to the reaction point. In this case this is the reaction point because this is the lowest place of that reaction. So this is where you move the stop. Like I'm not saying you can't do the break even thing. I'm only saying that I'm doing it like this and it works better in my experience. Now here is one last example of this. We have a short trade. This is short trade entry. And in this case, this was almost perfect trade entry. So what you do is you move the stop to high of this candle which is almost break even but not exactly. So this is your new stop loss. That's the place where you secure the position as the price starts to move and gets close to your takerit. It's a rather simple rule. Nothing too complicated about it. I think now at the beginning of the webinar I gave you a little quiz so you can see where you were at. And now I want to do a second quiz so you can see how you improved and what you've learned. So here we go. First question, take a look at this chart and imagine you had a short trade from here because this was the volume accumulation setup, right? So you went short from there and the trade failed. My question is, is there something you can do about this? Obviously there is because I wouldn't really ask otherwise, right? So thing to do about this is take the reversal trade, right? So if you went short from here, the trade failed, then you wait for the pullback and from the same level you go long. That's what you can do about this. All right, take a reversal trade. You got this right, didn't you? I bet you did. If you watched the whole webinar, you did. All right, here's another question. And the question is not about trade entry because I guess that you know that this is the volume accumulation setup and that the short trade entry is here because this is the beginning of the heavy volume zone. I guess you know that. But my question is where do you place the stop and take profit? So take a look at it and tell me where you place the stop and take profit for this short trade. All right. So the stop should go behind heavy volume zone ideally at top of little rejection. So the stop will be in here. That little rejection that should be the highest point of the latest little rotation before the start of the self to be precise. But it doesn't matter as much as the first rule which is that the stop needs to be behind the heavy volume zone. Right? So anyways, this is the stop. And if you look at the volume distribution here in the place where the price was moving towards the level, then the takerit should be here because this is the beginning of this heavy volume zone. In other words, beginning of a barrier, right? So take profit needs to go before barrier. Stop loss goes behind barrier. Now here's another question. The question is, is there a good opportunity for a trade? Yeah, there is a good opportunity for a trade. Right here is a significant volume cluster formed within the rotation. So that's the volume accumulation setup. Right? We have that heavy volume zone followed by that trend and a long level should be the beginning of that heavy volume zone. So this should be the long level. And our question is where do you place the stop and the takerit? Okay, this is a tricky question because at this point we are able to tell where we place the stop. It is here behind the barrier. Right? So that's the stop. But we don't really know how the volumes will look if there is a pullback. We don't know how the volumes will look here. We don't know that yet. So we need to wait. At this point, if I was setting the limit order, buy limit order here. Then I would simply put the sort of temporary takeprofit here. So the trade would be with risk reward ratio one. That's for example if I was asleep let's say that's during the Asian session and I wasn't able to be at the computer at the time when the level got hit right that's why I do it like this but what you want to do if you are around the computer you wait and you wait until you are able to see this and how the volumes were distributed in that area right as you can see there is a significant volume cluster here which could represent a barrier. So again the trade entry would be here. Stop would be here behind that barrier. And now we know that here's a significant volume cluster here. So we want to quit the trade before the price reaches that volume cluster or at the beginning of the barrier. So take profit will be here. Now if you look closely you can see that the price just missed the stop reached that heavy volume zone overshot a bit but then reacted to it. All right so that would be the outcome of this trade. As you can see it's not always about picking the best trade entry but also picking the best place for the stop-loss and for the takerit. So what I'd like to cover now is some stuff regarding money management. Let's get to it and let's start with how much to risk per trade. Now this is highly individual and I can't really give you one good advice on that because this also depends on how averse towards risk you are whether you are trading a small account and want to grow it or whether you are having a huge account and you just sort of want to live out of it. So this really depends. So let me just give you some rough ideas how much you should be thinking about risking per trade. So if you are growing a small account then 5% sounds bit aggressive but if you do want to really make a small account into a big one it's difficult and risky but if you want to do it you need to risk quite a lot which I think 5% is more or less okay for this purpose. If on the other hand you have a huge account and you want to live out of it then you don't want to risk too much uh could be for example half a percent per trade or if you are somewhere in between then 2% risk per trade seems like an optimal risk. Now, important thing here and I really want to stress this out is that you want to risk the same amount for each trade. What people often do is like they risk more for trades that they trust in and trades that they're not so sure about, they risk less. But in my opinion, some of the trades that don't seem that superb in the beginning sometimes end up beautiful trades. And if there is a trade that you believe in so much and risk a lot of money on that then that turns out to be a loser. So for that reason my advice is to risk the same amount for each trade. Now another thing that I like to talk about is when to increase risk. You know I've seen this so many times a beginner started to trade my strategy and they had good results. something like this. After a period of many winning trades, they felt like they are invincible and that they should increase their risk. They did that and right after that this happened. They had a losing streak and at top of that with increased risk. So they blew up their accounts. My advice is do not increase your risk after a winning streak or when you are in a winning streak because usually after a winning streak what comes next is a period where the strategy doesn't do so well go sideways or even makes a little draw down. And if you decide to increase your risk, let's say double your risk at this point, then this area will not look like this, but it will look like this, which is way more terrifying. So instead, you want to increase risk when your trading equity goes something like this, sideways or slightly up. Nothing terrific, not in a huge draw down, but you know, something like this. This is the right time to increase your risk. But you know, I'm not saying you need to increase the risk. Like if you are trading with 2% risk per trade and you're okay with that, then just, you know, stick to it. But if you want to increase your risk, for example, if you are risking 1% and want to risk 2%, then don't do it when you are in a winning streak. Now, another thing that I want to cover is when to decrease your risk. Typically, you want to do this when you are in a huge draw down, a bigger drawdown than you historically ever experienced. All right. So what you see here on this picture, this is a chart of equity and this line shows a standard drawdown. A draw down which is sort of typical for your strategy in the long run. If you are past that and if you are for example here and you are in an excessive draw down then you want to decrease your trading position right for example 50% of your normal position. What many people do in this case is they just you know take a long pause from trading. They review stuff and they think about their strategy. Maybe they even change the strategy. But what I recommend is don't stop trading when you are in excessive draw down because what is most likely to happen is that there'll be many winning trades after that. And if you pause your trading for a long time, you'll just miss a great period, right? So I recommend review your trades. That's for sure. review what went wrong but keep trading with smaller position to regain confidence in your strategy. Right? So this is the part where you are regaining confidence and when you see that you are on the right track and that the strategy is performing then you can increase the risk back to normal from here. Right? and from this place trade with normal volumes. So that's my advice on decreasing the risk. Now in this part I like to give you a couple of tips what to do when you are in a draw down. Uh there are essentially two reasons why you are in a draw down. First reason could be risk and money management problem. The second one could be strategy problem. So let's first cover the risk and money management problem because this is easier to fix. The most common mistakes why people are in a draw down is because they are not having constant risk per trade. And this is quite surprising right that so many people are having problems with that. But they really do based on the messages which I'm getting. And sometimes people are sending me their account statements and I'm helping them to pinpoint the problem in their strategy. And so many times I would say the majority is this not having constant risk per trade. There's easy fix just you know risk the same amount per every trade and you'll get rid of this problem. Problem that people had was that they for example risked too much on one single trade which went wrong and it got them into a draw down. Right? So yeah risk the same amount per each trade. Another very common thing is big risk exposure caused by correlated trades. That means that uh if you look at those three charts here then imagine you enter three trades at the same time. You enter long here, long here and short here. Imagine that those are highly correlated pairs. Could be for example Euro dollar, British pound, US dollar and for example US dollar, Swiss Frank. Euro dollar and British pound have high positive correlation. US dollar has high negative correlation. So if you enter long from here, long from here and short from here, it is very likely that all those trades will have the same outcome either all winners or all losers. Right? And this is the big risk exposure I'm talking about. Right? So if you see that you are about to enter three trades like that, three trades that are heavily correlated, three or more I should say, uh then my recommendation is to decrease your risk to 50% per trade. So if you trade 10 lots on the Euro dollar, 10 on the British pound, then on the Swiss Frank, then you want to go for five, five and five. This way you manage the risk. And if all those three trades end up as losers, then you won't lose as much as if you are trading with full position. Now the second big reason why you could be in a drawdown is because of a trading strategy. There are some problem with your trading strategy and there is a bit more work involved if you want to fix this. My number one tip is to take screenshots of every trade that you take. Every screenshot also needs to have a little note. It should be a reason for trade entry, reason for take profit and stop-loss placement and a little note about how you managed the trade. It could look for example like this. This is one of the trades which I took. This is the reason why I entered the trade. There was the volume profile trend setup. In here I have the volume cluster within the trend. This is where I went short from. This is my stop loss. It was behind heavy volume zone. This was where I took profit before first heavy volume zone. You can see that in here. And there's also a little note at the bottom which says I was trading with positive risk-reward ratio and that I moved stop-loss to reaction point after the trade made it to riskreward one. That's it. This shouldn't take more than one minute to make and you really want to be brief with making those because when you are going through many of those in order to fix your strategy then you simply want to be brief. Right? This shouldn't take too long. Now, when you are going through those screenshots, uh there are a couple of things that you should look for. I would say the most important thing here is you want to focus on the good traits and the things that you did right. You want to keep the feedback positive, right? So, you want to look at those screenshots and identify the stuff which went well, which you did right. That could be good trade entry, strong level, good confluencies or good take-profit placement. Take profit was placed according to your rules or that you are trading with positive riskreward ratio. That you are not too greedy about taking your profit nor too afraid. Or it could be for example a good stop-loss placement that you placed stop-loss according to your rules. your trade was well managed and you also managed to secure your position properly or you've done a proper stop-loss trading. Right? So, this is the positive stuff to focus on when going through the screenshots. But you also want to identify the stuff which went wrong. So, what you want to do is you want to focus on the draw down period and review pictures or screenshots from this draw down period. And here are a couple of things which you should look for. Those are like typical mistakes that people do most often. And it's trading weak levels, levels that are not too strong. Holding a bad trade too long. Bad take-profit placement. Bad stop-loss placement. Not securing position by tightening stop-loss or securing stop too soon or quitting the trade too soon or entering a trade without a plan. Those are the most common mistakes and if you review your screenshots then you should look out for those. Now to improve your trading and this is not just getting out of drawdown. This is like generally speaking. If you want to improve your trading then you want to focus on what works best for you. A very effective way how to tell what works best for you is having trade journal. I know this is not very popular. Traders don't like using trading journal but this is the way forward. This is what works for me and for our members as well. and it's proven to work. It's just extra work. People don't like doing it, but trust me, it will take you a level higher. What journal is is basically unbiased picture of longterm stats. And this is exactly what you need because so many traders just rely on their head. They feel like they remember what works for them and what doesn't work for them. But there is something called recency bias. And that means that things that happened recently, they give more weight to it than stuff that happened in the past. Let's say last week I was trading the Japanese yen and I had great results with the Japanese yen. Right? So now I think that I'm great at trading Japanese yen and I'll try to find more and more trades on the Japanese yen because of the recency bias because last week I was trading the Japanese yen and I was very successful. But if I look at my long-term stats from the past, I'll for example notice that this whole year was terrible on the Japanese yen and maybe the Japanese yen was the worst trading instrument that I was trading, but because of the recency bias, I think that it's great. So that's why it's important to have the journal which gives you the unbiased picture of the longterm stats. right now. There are so many different types and forms of journal that you can have. Uh let me very quickly show you mine. So this is how my journal looks like. As you can see, I'm tracking a lot of things here. I'm tracking data about when the level formed, in which session it formed, about when the level got executed and in which session it got executed. Then there's data about um the chart that means which instrument it was on time frame whether it was long short then which setup the trade was based on and if there was any confirmation setup and then there are some info about uh the trades like trade entry, stop-loss placement, take profit placement, riskreward ratio and the risk. Now what I do is I take all that and put it into this overview section. And in this overview section I can sort of filter things and look at what works best for me and what is getting worst results. So what I do here is I for example look at the symbols here and I filter for example trades on the Australian dollar. So those are the trades on the Australian dollar. This is the equity. This is how much they made like 62%, total trades 97 and this is the win rate and so on. So this is the Australian dollar. If I go for example to the Euro dollar then it looks like this. This is the British pound, US dollar, Canadian dollar and I can look into each of those instruments that I trade separately and see how they performed. Right? So that's important because this gives me a long-term analysis. As you can see, I'm looking at three-year period here of my trades and I know what performs better and what performs worse and where my focus should be because I should always focus on the things that work best. Right? So those are the symbols. I can also take a look at the setups here. So this is how the rejection setup performs. This is the trend setup. This is the volume accumulation setup, right? I can also, for example, take a look at which day works best for me in here. I know that historically my worst day is Monday. Those are all Mondays. This is like if I was trading only Mondays. I typically perform very well on Fridays though. This is Friday. So this is how you can sort of look into the long-term stats and improve your trading by focusing on what works best for you. All right. Now there are many different types of journals. You don't need to have my journal because this is only for me and for the members of the funded trader academy. But you can have different journal and track those stats as well. But the important thing is that you have at least some form of journal where you write down all your trades. Right now the trading journal is just one thing that will help you to level up your trading game. The other thing is a trading plan and you need to have both because they sort of work together. A trading plan is a clear set of rules that describes your strategy and how you trade it. The trading plan is very important because if you don't have a written trading plan and if you don't stick to the rules from the trading plan then you are journaling random data. This is why I said that trading journal and trading plan sort of go hand in hand because they complement each other. First you need to have a trading plan and you need to trade according to that and then you journal that data into the journal. If you don't follow your trading plan, then you are basically journaling a random data, right? So yeah, it's another unpopular thing to have a trading plan or written trading plan, but trust me, this will elevate your trading if you do have the trading plan. Now, let me give you a little example of how a trading plan could look like. So here is an example of a trading plan which is tailored to trading those kind of strategies that I'm showing you today. So you need to have a well- definfined trade entry. In here it says that I'm entering a trade when one of the three setups that I showed you occur. So those are the main setups. Volume accumulation trend setup or the rejection setup. There could also be a confirmation setup. It's not obligatory but it is preferable. Again uh there are a couple of those setups written down. What also is quite useful is have a picture just one picture to see how that setup should look like like one ideal scenario. Right now another thing is that enter trades with limit orders. Use market orders only when trading with orderflow confirmation. Don't trade a level which has already been tested. Don't trade against spike move. And take reversal trade when price doesn't react to level. As you can see, we've covered all of this and I have it in this journal right here. Now, regarding the takerit, use volume profile or price action to determine the takerit. Take profit should be before a barrier like we talked about and riskreward ratio must be at least one, ideally between one and two. Regarding the stop- loss, use volume profile or price action to determine stop-loss. Stop should be behind a barrier like we talked about and stop should be should not be too tight. Minimum is roughly 10% of average daily volatility. Then there's a part about money management where it states maximum risk per trade and if trading highly correlated pairs together, split the risk between them. Regarding position management, what I have here is that I secure my trade by moving stop-loss to the reaction point after the price made 75% of the move towards the takerit. And don't move stop-loss to break even always to the reaction point. Then there is some stuff regarding macron and trading around the macronuse. And then there's also a little section what to do when I'm in a draw down. So that's review journal. Don't pause trading. Use smaller positions. Also, what I recommend is having a list of your weaknesses. So it sort of reminds you what not to do, right? So what I have here is hope a loser will turn into a winner. Trade impulsively based on emotions, forced trades, revenge trading, fear of entering trade, closing trades too soon, adding to losing positions and FOMO, right? So those are the weaknesses and you should focus on not doing those. What I also have here are business hours, but I guess that that's not really that important or mandatory to have that in your trading plan, but it doesn't hurt. Now, at this point, I like to talk about how much money you actually need to trade with and to live off trading and also about prop firms which can very effectively help with that. So, let me show you one interesting thing here. So what I have here is an interactive table which shows how much money you need to trade with. In here you need to set your monthly goal. That's how much you want to make every month. Then your typical number of trades per month, your win rate, your risk per trade, and your riskreward ratio. When you fill this, then it will tell you how much you need to risk per trade and what your account size must be to achieve this monthly goal. So, if you want to make $5,000 every month, you need to have account of this size. Now, truth be told, many novice traders don't have that. And even if they did, it would be very risky for them to trade with that amount of money. And this is where the prop firms come into play. A prop firm is a company that gives traders access to large trading capital and lets them keep a big share of the profits. It is simple as that. There's an evaluation phase which traders need to pass to sort of show the prop firm that they can trade. And when they pass the challenge, then they get funded. Currently, the biggest prop from companies are Topstep, Apex, and FTMO. And if you go to my website, I actually have a whole program that teaches people how to pass the evaluation, how to become a proper trader, and how to scale up their business. Let me show you real quick. So, this is my website, traderdale.com. And if you click this button FTA then it will take you to that page which is funded trader academy. In here you can read uh what it is what we do and how we help students through a daily life trading room and through direct one-on-one mentorship. If you guys are interested then what I recommend is clicking this button which says talk to a mentor. This is basically a 30-inut call where me or other traders from our group will walk you through the service, show you around, and then you can decide whether or not this is the right service for you. All right? So, don't hesitate. It's for free. It's free consultation. Just hit this button and reserve your spot and then you can decide whether or not this is right for you. What I want to share with you now is one huge study of prop firm traders and the study shows how the best traders in the world or the best prop firm traders in the world how they trade and let me share that with you because we can learn from this. So the first thing I want to talk about is the profit factor of those traders or of the best traders. 14% of traders who account for 58% of the total payouts have their profit factor above two. That means making twice as much on winners as they lose on losers. So the lesson we can take from that is that we want to win more than we lose and we keep our losses small. All right, this is what the top traders are doing. Another thing is quality over quantity. 12% of traders who placed 10 or fewer trades per month take 60% of total payouts. This is quite insane, right? Those guys, those 12% of best traders are taking 10 or fewer trades per month. Right? And those are the best ones. So the lesson we should learn from this is we should focus on A+ setups and take only the high quality trades. Another interesting thing is the number of markets traded. 6% of traders who focused on one market made 43% of total payouts. And only 17% of traders who traded two or three markets made 33% of total payouts. So that means that you want to master one or two markets. The more markets you trade, the harder it is to stay profitable. And that really makes sense because every market is a bit different. Every market reacts different to macro news, to different stuff. Also, every market has different volatility. Different players are playing on different markets. So, this definitely makes sense to focus on one or two markets that perform best for you and trade just them. And here we are getting back to the trading journal because the trading journal will tell you what those markets are, right? Where you perform the best. Now, another thing is choosing the right time to trade. 9% of traders who would only trade it one day per week. One day per week made 45% of payouts. So the lesson is only trade when conditions are in your favor. If you struggle on certain days, avoid them. Again, we are getting back to the trading journal. You need to be able to tell which days you are performing best and which are your worst days. Cut off the worst days. Trade just on your best days. Now, here is the last one about win rate. 34% of traders had a 70% win rate, taking 87% of payouts. 87% of payouts. What this is telling us is that insanely high win rate isn't necessary to be successful. you can still perform very well with lower win rate like 60 or 70%. Right? Yeah, there are guys who are trading with 90% win rate but that's less than 1%. Right? Less than 1% of those 17,000 proper traders. But the rest of us, we can still make good money trading with win rate like 60 or 70%. So here we have a little summary of how to apply this to your trading. Cut your losses quickly and let winners run. Focus on quality. Take fewer high quality trades. Focus on a few markets that you know well. Stick to the times when you perform the best. No need to have insanely high win rate. A lot of those things are sort of well-known lessons that you hear everywhere. But now we have that backed up by this huge study of 17,000 traders. So as you can see it really does make sense to follow those sort of basic common sense rules. Now we are slowly approaching the end of the webinar and at this point I'd like to address some common questions which I'm often getting. Question number one is where to get volume profile. Now most of platforms will not give you volume profile for free. Actually I don't know about platform which would give you volume profile for free. You at least need a paid subscription for them to give you a volume profile. But I have a little gift for you as a thanks for staying until the end of the webinar. And it is a free volume profile for trading view platform. You don't even need to have trading view subscription. They have a thing which is called like a basic plan which is a free plan. They won't allow you to have their volume profile. But if you click this link then you'll be able to get my volume profile and you can use it on Trading View basic plan. That's a free plan for free. There are no limits. There's no catch. Just click this link, get the indicator. It's a gift from me to you. Another question is, what is the best broker for intraday trading? Now, I'm currently trading with IC Markets. I've been trading with them for around 10 years, maybe even more. And they are very good for intraday trading. They have tight spreads, low commissions. They have many trading instruments to choose from. They are reliable. They also have very good support if you need anything. They are well regulated. So yeah, I can only recommend IC Markets. If you click this link, which I'll also put below this video, then it will lead you to their website. And if you are US-based, then it will lead you to other website of other broker that I recommend for US-based clients. So anyways, on this link, you'll always find my recommended broker. Even if I change from IC Markets to something else, then below this link, you'll always see who I trade with. Now, what is the best platform for volume profile trading? Today, I was showing you all those screenshots and all those analysis on Ninja Trader. I've been using their platform for like forever. They have two plans. One is free, one is paid. I'm using the free version and I've been using for the whole time. Um, you know, the difference between the free version and the paid version is that if you have the paid version, you can actually trade through Ninja Trader. So, you can place trades in Ninja Trader. I don't do that. I place my trades with IC Markets and I use Ninja Trader only to do my analysis, right? And to do that, the free plan is completely fine. Now obviously it would be handy to trade through Ninja Trader but they only have a limited number of brokers that they support and IC Markets I believe is not among them. So yeah that's the Ninja Trader. I definitely recommend using their platform. It's great and I would say that it's way more superior than the Trading View platform. But I get it. Trading View is sort of userfriendly, very easy to use. You won't have any problems setting it up. So yeah, I get it why people steer towards the trading view, but quality wise, you just want the Ninja Trader. If you want the best, you go for the Ninja Trader, and that's what I use. Now, another question I'm getting often is question about Forex versus futures data. The thing is that futures data is centralized. That means that every person on the planet sees the same data and is trading according the same data. Right? The data is centralized. Forex is decentralized. That means that every broker will give you slightly different data based on their data provider. So in theory, it should not be as precise as futures and that's why people are asking me about that. But in reality, it's super close and you can totally depend with your trading on forex data. In here, I have a little comparison. The picture on the left, that's Euro futures. Picture on the right is Forex. You're looking at the Euro futures here. And on the right, this is the Euro dollar. Now, you can take a look at the volume profile and compare. So, as you can see, the main areas on the volume profile are the same. Here's the point of control. Here are the volume clusters. Only this one shows on forex and not on futures. But apart from that, all the stuff is there. So as you can see, you can totally depend on Forex data provided you have a good data provider. Which gives me to the next question, which is where to get good quality data. What I recommend is using FXCM data. The data is free and it's very accurate. You can depend on it and I can only recommend it if you visit uh this link. And again, I'll drop it below this video in the video description. It will take you to this page and you just give them their email and they'll send you a username and password and then you paste that into Ninja Trader and you'll have their data for free. Let me show you real quick. So, this is the Ninja Trader platform. This is the control center. And if you click connections and then configure. Then in here you double click FXCM then it will show up in here among the configured. And in here you just fill in the username and the password you got from the email. You hit okay and you'll be connected to the FXCM data. Simple as that. But you know you actually don't have to worry about setting that up. If you join us and if you become member of our trading course, we'll actually do all that for you. We have a tech team. They'll connect to your computer. They'll set up Ninja Trader. They'll set up all my indicators there. They'll also connect you to data. They'll do everything for you. Let me really quickly show you how you can join us. So, if you go to traderdale.com, click trading course and tools. Then in here you scroll down a bit and in here you can get one of our educational and indicator packs where you can get my full video courses and my custommade indicators. And what's also included in all those packs is that tech support which will install and set up everything for you. All right, you can get those courses separately in here. Or if you scroll down a bit, then there's a huge bundle that includes all those four packs together for a discounted price here. So you can get that at the bottom of the page. All right, so that's the end of the webinar. If you already watched the whole thing, then huge thanks and I hope that it will bring you to a whole new level. If there is anything I can help you with, then shoot me an email. I'll be happy to help and I'll see you in some other video or in our members area. So until then, happy trading.
