📈 How to Improve Price Action Trading With Volume Profile
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FVoXWlNkdhs

Hello everyone, it's Dale here and in this video I'll show you how you can improve your price action trading with volume profile. You know when I first started to trade I was using so many indicators my charts were just cluttered by the indicators. So what I did next I just deleted all those indicators and I focused plainly on trading with price action. My charts were clean and I definitely made a progress with a simple price action, but I was nowhere near my goal of being consistently profitable trader. Yeah, sure I saw some first winners, but also I was getting losers and it wasn't really consistent and it really wasn't it. So what I added was just one indicator. It was the volume profile and it was really the breakthrough for me because volume profile what it does it shows the big institutions the big players and their volumes uh which they place in the markets right and up until today this has been giving me a huge edge in my trading that's why I want to show you today how you can add volume profile to your price action strategies to improve your consistency and your win rate so what we are going to do is I'm going to show you two simple price action strategies and then I'm going to show you how to add volume profile to those simple price action strategies and how that will improve your trading. All right, so let's cut to the chase and let me start with the first price action strategy which is a fair value gap. Fair value gap is nothing really new. It's from Smart Money Concepts. It's been around for a very long time and uh let me show you how to go about trading this. All right, just a little explanation of what the fair value gap is before we jump right into it. So what you see in here, this is a bullish fair value gap and this is a bearish fair value gap. Fair value gap is basically a three candle formation. Important thing here is if we start with a bullish fair value gap. Important thing here is that there's gap between high of the first candle and low of the third candle. And it doesn't really matter if the first and the third candle are bullish or bearish. What matters is that there's some space between the high of the first candle and the low of the third candle. This area is called the fair value gap and it shows the aggressivity in this case aggressivity of buyers who are pushing the price upwards. The bigger the fair value gap the better the stronger the bars were. So this whole area is the fair value gap and I personally like to trade from the beginning of it. So in this bullish scenario, I would trade from this place. This is the beginning of the fair value gap. So I would wait for pullback and go long from there like this. All right, this is how I trade the bullish fair value gap. So let's now talk about the bearish fair value gap. Again we have three candles and it is important that there is gap between the low of the first candle and the high of the third candle. This whole area is the fair value gap and I like to trade from the beginning of it from this level. This is the beginning of a bearish fair value gap. So what I do is I wait for pullback and trade short from here. This is how I trade the bearish fair value gap. It's very simple formation, quite common to see that many times every day. So there are plenty of opportunities to trade this. Now let me show you this on actual chart. So in here we have the candle number one. This would be candle number two. This would be candle number three. And we have the high of the candle number one and the low of the candle number three. And that space between is the fair value gap. This whole area. Now, as I was saying, I like to trade from the beginning of the fair value gap. So, when I see a huge fair value gap like that, just wait for the pullback to the beginning of it because this is a bullish fair value gap. Then the beginning is here. So, it is a long from this place. All right. Now let me show you a bearish scenario. So let's take a look at those three candles. Candle number one, candle number two, candle number three. And we have the low of the first candle and high of the third candle. There's a gap between them. They don't overlap. So we have a fair value gap. This whole area being the fair value gap. And I like to trade from the beginning of it. And since the beginning in this bearish scenario is in here, then I wait for pullback to this place and go short from there. This is the bearish scenario. Now, if you trade just every single fair value gap that you see on the chart, you do that blindly, you won't get good results. But if you add volume profile to it, it will dramatically improve. Let me show you how to do about this. So again we have a simple price action chart but in this case I've added volume profile here and let's focus on those three candles here because they form a fair value gap. This is the high of the fair value gap. This is the low of the fair value gap because this is the low of the first candle. Right here is the high of the third candle. So this whole area is a bearish fair value gap and I like to trade from the beginning of it. So the resistance that I would trade is this one right short from there. What comes into play now is the volume profile. Fair value gap is the first thing that you need to see. The second thing is the volume profile. So you need to use flexible volume profile or if you for example use trading view then it's called fixed range volume profile. It is essentially volume profile which you can move around the chart to see only into specific areas you are interested in. Right? In this case I'm interested in this little rotation before the fair value gap formed. And what I need to see is a significant volume cluster like this one. The logic is that in this case we see some institutional volumes here or heavy volumes in this rotation area before the sell off started. This is telling us that sellers were building up their short positions here before aggressively pushing the price downwards. Right? So this is what the volumes stand for. This is why they are important. They show us the big guys and the big guys are likely to be active when the price hits this level again. All right, as you can see it is behind the fair value gap and this is exactly the combo that you want to see. You want to see fair value gap and behind it heavy volume zone. That's the whole thing. So if you see this then you trade from the beginning of the fair value gap. In this case, it would be uh either in here or or in here. By the way, there's one more example of this. Uh there's another fair value gap. This one, this fair value gap. And again, the bigger the fair value gap, the better. All right. And behind it, you need to see heavy volumes like this heavy volume zone. See? So we have our level. This is where the price hits the level and this is where you go short. So again this is viable short based on this combo strategy. Now let's take a look at another example here. In this case we have a bullish fair value gap. This one. And by the way at top of it there is another one. See we have two fair value gaps. And when they are at top of each other stacked like that then I look at it as if this was one big fair value gap right if they are closed then I consider it one big fair value gap and I trade from the beginning of it. So since this is a bullish scenario then this is the long level. This is the support. All right. The second thing is the volume. If you look in this area, you can see that there's a significant volume zone standing out. So yeah, definitely institutions were active here adding to their long positions as they were pushing the price up. So this is definitely a very strong zone. You just wait for the pullback and when the price hits this support level in here, which is the beginning of the fair value gap and also the beginning of the heavy volume zone, this is where you go long. All right. Now here is another example. This is a bearish scenario. We have this fair value gap. So that's requirement number one. And requirement number two is heavy volume zone. And we have that in here. This is the heavy volume zone. So if you see that you just wait for the pullback and when the price reaches the beginning of the fair value gap which is this level then you go short from there. By the way the price overshot the level just a little bit but it wouldn't really hit the stop because the way I place my stop orders is behind heavy volume zones. So my stop would be right here behind the heavy volume zone. So, plenty of room for the price to turn and go towards the takerit here. But I don't really want to talk about take profit and stop loss placement here. I made couple of videos regarding that. You can watch it. I place it in the video description. But right now, I just want to focus on uh those setups here. Um, one more example of this strategy before we move on. And in this case, we have a bullish scenario. We have a huge fair value gap. Again, let me repeat it. The bigger the fair value gap, the better, right? So, we have huge fair value gap. That's a requirement number one. Requirement number two is a heavy volume zone at the beginning of the fair value gap like this. Right? So, this is your support level. When the price makes pull back to it, then you go long from here. That's the whole trick. Just keep in mind, and I know that I've said it many times, the fair value gap needs to be huge. The bigger the better, right? Small fair value gaps like let's say for example this one or this one, they don't really give you the information that you need. And the information being big aggressive players are entering the game and they're manipulating the price, right? They are aggressive. they want to move the price. So this is something what I would call an ideal fair value gap. Very often this happens during macron which is completely fine. I don't really discard trades if they are based on candles formed in macronuse. So this is completely fine even if this got formed during macronuse. In fact those strong candles usually work like a charm. All right so that's the fair value gap and volume profile. Let's now move on to the second setup and again this is very very simple setup to trade. First I'll show you just price action then we will add a volume profile. I call this setup support resistance flip. It basically tells you that a broken support becomes a resistance. Let me show you on this chart so it's easier to understand. So at first let's take a look here. There was a strong reaction. The price went up then turned and went aggressively down again in this area. Again a strong reaction. The price reacted twice to this level or to this general area. And that means that in the past this was a resistance zone, right? Because the price was reacting here. So this zone was a resistance. Now, what happened next was the price went past that resistance and that turned this resistance zone into a new support zone. And again, I don't really want to take credit for this price action setup. This is not a setup that would come from my head. This is a price action setup which is very old and I don't really know who is author of it, but I've been using it and uh I like using it especially with volume profile. Anyways, this resistance became a support and that means that when the price comes back to this level, then this is a place to go long, right? Long from this newly formed support. And this is why the setup is called support resistance flip, right? Because resistance turned into a support. Now, let me go to the next example. It's basically the same only chart is reversed. Uh this is a support becoming a resistance. U in this case we see that there was a strong reaction to this area in the past. That means that this zone was a support. Now when the price blew past that support the support turned into a resistance. All right. So what you do is you wait for the pullback and when the price reaches this resistance then you enter your short trade. All right, this is the plain price action setup. Now let me show you how you can add volume profile to it and increase its win rate. So if you look at this chart then you can see that there was a strong reaction in the past. So that was a strong support. Then the price went past the support. That means that the support turned into a resistance. That's the requirement number one. Requirement number two is you need to see volume cluster such as this one around the place where the support turned into a resistance. Right? And you trade from the beginning of the volume cluster. or if there's a fair value gap like in here there's a small fair value gap you can trade from the beginning of the fair value gap in either case in this example the resistance is in here where I have that line so what you do is you just wait for the pullback and when the price hits it then you go short in this case it would miss the level in here and I only trade first test so this would be the valid trade entry Okay. But you know quite often when the price is close to the level and makes a reaction then I discard the level just to make sure that I don't enter a level which has already been tested. Anyways that's part of the position management topic which is not the topic that I would like to cover today. Uh anyways let me give you another example here. So in this case we have this zone which worked as a support in the past in here and in here. I'm saying that it worked as a support because the price was reacting here. Right? And again this is not just like one exact level. This is zone support and resistances are not exact levels. There are zones. Right? Remember that. So this was a support zone in the past. Then the price went past it and it turned into a new resistance. That's requirement number one. Requirement number two is heavy volume zone. The logic here is that when the sellers were pushing the price through that support, they really needed huge amounts of volumes. You can see that on the volume profile to push through. If we see those huge amounts of volumes, we can tell that they really mean it, right? That this is important for them. They that they push through and that's why they'll want to defend this place in the future as well because this is important zone for them. So when there's a pullback, those guys will be active again and push the price downwards. That's the logic behind it. Now, let me give you another example. In here you can see that the price made a nice reaction uh to this level. This being the nice reaction. If the reaction is sharp and strong and big like this one the better. Right? So in the past this was a resistance because there was this reaction. Then the price went past it forming those heavy volumes as it went through it and that turned that resistance into new support. All right. So requirement number one we have that resistance turning into support. Requirement number two is we have heavy volume zone here. So we just wait for the pullback and if it occurs then go long from here right buyers from here should help the price to move up from this level from this newly formed support. All right let me give you one more example. In this case, we had a resistance zone in here because the price made this reaction here and this resistance turned into a support. Right? So, we had a resistance which is now a support. We have a volume cluster here. And notice one thing on this volume profile. There are a couple of more volume clusters like this one, this one, this one. But the reason why I was trading this one, why this one is important is because there's that combo of this price action setup and volume profile. That's what makes this volume cluster important, right? It's not just about how big the volume cluster is, but also about if there is a combo, right? And in this case, there's a beautiful combo. So anyways, wait for pullback and enter your long here. Now the reason why I have that long level exactly in here, let me delete all this. You see, if you take a closer look, then this is actually a fair value gap. And that level was exactly at the beginning of the fair value gap right here. Right? This being the fair value gap. This is actually thing that I like to do uh when placing the level. The exact placement of the level is very very often at the beginning of the fair value gap. So this is the beginning of the fair value gap. So that's why the level is exactly at this place. All right. So I think that we've covered it all guys. Thanks so much for sticking until the end of the video. If you want to join us, trade with me every day. If you want to get your hands on my trading courses, if you want to get your hands on my trading indicators, then go ahead and visit my website. It is trader.com. If you click trading course and tools in here, then it will take you to this page where you can purchase my courses and customate trading indicators. If you scroll down a bit, then you can get them all together, all the packs together for a hugely discounted price. And if you want to trade alongside me and other properform traders in a live trading room, then you want to go to the FTA page right here. It stands for funded trader academy and the best way to go about this is simply click this button which says talk to a mentor and this will book you a call either with me or with other mentor from our group and we'll walk you through the whole service. We'll show you around and then you can decide whether or not uh this is right for you. Right? This is our team. We'll walk you through then you'll see whether or not you want to join us. All right. So, thanks for watching the video. I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time. And until then, happy trading.
