Top 3 VOLUME PROFILE Strategies & 📈 Real Results Included
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=grEU59ExG_k

Hey everyone, it's Dale here. Today I'm going to show you three plus one battle tested volume profile strategies which I've been trading for around 10 years. And today I'm going to show you how you can go about trading them as well. In this video, I'm going to focus on trade entries. I won't cover stop-loss placement, take profit placement, or position management. I'm only going to cover how to enter the trade based on those strategies. All right. Now, what you see before you, this is how the strategies perform. This is their combined equity right here uh since uh up until now. U their combined win rate is 66%. And uh I'm trading this uh all those strategies on forex major pairs. That means I'm trading that on the euro, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the Swiss Frank and the Japanese yen. And also on couple indexes, I'm trading it on the ES and uh the ENQ. I'm getting the best results on the euro. If you look here and if I select just the Euro dollar then this equity is just if I were trading the strategies on the Euro dollar as you can see the win rate is 71% on the Euro dollar. Uh the other instruments perform good as well only the euro is just you know the best performing and it always has been since forever I would say. U so for example this is the performance of the British pound. Uh this is the performance on the Australian dollar US dollar. This is the performance on the ES and if I go back this is the overall performance of all the three strategies combined. All right. And this is their combined win rate with uh trades with riskreward ratio one. So I think now is the time we take a look at the strategies. Right? And by the way, one thing I forgot to mention is that all those trades which you see here, those are trades that I call in advance in our trading group. You can join us as well. If you go to traderdale.com, which is my website, you can join one of my courses there and you can join us and get those signals in advance as well. All right, let's get to the strategies. So the first strategy which I'm going to talk about is called the volume accumulation strategy. I'm trading those strategies on a 30inut chart. So I'm trading uh those as interday trades. You can do that also for example on a different time frames but I prefer 30 minute time frame. All right. I've been trading on that time frame mainly for the last like 10 or 12 years. So uh let's take a look at the steps to trade this strategy. It's rather simple. The first step is look for a rotation which is followed by a trend. So if you look at this picture then here is a rotation and here it is followed by a trend right so that's the first step you need to see this then the second thing is that you use a flexible volume profile and identify heavy volume zone in the rotation. So in the rotation that you see right here you need to see heavy volume zone. Usually in the rotations there are heavy volume zones because big trading institutions like to accumulate their positions inside a rotation. Right? So you want to use the flexible profile to look into the rotation and see how volumes were distributed there. Now the flexible volume profile that's a custommade profile that you can have as well. You can get it on my website. Let me show you how it looks like. So uh this is Ninja Trader 8 platform and this is the flexible volume profile. You can move it around look into specific areas which is very very handy especially if you are trading those setups and strategies which I'm going to show you today. For example, here this is the volume accumulation strategy right here. There's a rotation followed by a trend, right? So, uh basically you wait for pullback and trade from there. Right? So, that's why you want to use the flexible profile. So, it allows you to look only into specific areas in which you are interested in. Right? U now I'm not forcing you to use my indicators. I prefer them because I tailored them exactly to my style of trading. But you can for example go to trading view. They have something which is called fixed range volume profile. Let me show you. Um this is it. This is trading view. And this is their profile here. You can move it around as well like this. Look into specific areas. It's a bit more clunky I would say, but it's definitely usable, right? So yeah, that's the fixed range volume profile in trading view. And let me now go back to show you how the strategy is supposed to look like. So we identified a rotation with trend. We looked into the rotation to see how volumes are distributed here. And now the third thing is you want to draw a line at the beginning of the heavy volume zone. Right? The beginning of that heavy volume zone is roughly in here. So you draw a line there and this is your resistance. What you do next is you wait for pullback to that resistance. Right? So you wait for pullback. When the price hits this resistance, this is where you go short, right? And that's the whole volume accumulation strategy, right? Rather simple. This is a short trade scenario. I'm going to show you long trade scenario as well. The logic behind this, the reason why this works is that sellers were accumulating their short positions here. Then they manipulated the price to go downwards and when the price reaches this heavy volume zone, the sellers were active. Then the sellers usually step in again, become active again, defend their positions which they placed here in the past and actively push the price downwards from there again. Right? This is the logic behind this setup. So as I was saying, this is the short trade scenario. Let me now give you one more example of this short trade scenario. All right. So the first step is identify rotation followed by a trend. The stronger the trend, the more aggressive trend it is, the better, right? Because it shows the strength of uh the sellers. Then you draw that line from the beginning of that heavy volume zone. So in this case, it would be in here. And then you wait for pullback. It doesn't really matter how long it takes for the price to reach this level again. Could be the same day, the next day, the next week, or two weeks. It doesn't matter too much. Markets have a great memory. So, I don't mind waiting two or three weeks even for my levels to get hit. But when the level gets hit, then I enter the trade. Make sure that you enter at first touch. I don't trade second tests. So if there's a second pullback to that level, I don't enter another trade from there. Only first tests because the first test in my experience have better win rate. All right. So this is the short trade scenario of the volume accumulation strategy. And now I would like to show you a long trade scenario. It is the same thing only reversed. So again we have a rotation followed by a trend activity. Then you use the flexible profile. So you can see how the volumes are distributed in that rotation and you draw a line from the beginning of the heavy volume zone. So it would be roughly from here and then you wait for the pullback. So you wait until the price reaches your level. This is your support and you go long from there. All right, that's the whole trick. That's the whole volume accumulation strategy. Now, let's take a look at the next strategy which is called the rejection strategy. So, with the rejection strategy, you first look for a strong rejection. In this picture, the strong rejection is this. Uh rejection means that the price goes one way. In this case, it goes downwards aggressively. Then it suddenly turns and goes the other way. Also aggressive movement, right? This is a strong rejection of lower prices. Aggressive sellers are pushing the price downwards. Then aggressive buyers stepped in and the price completely turned. So this is a strong rejection. This is a rejection of lower prices and this would be a rejection of higher prices. So that's the first step. Look for strong rejection. The second step is again you use the flexible volume profile or if you are trading in trading view then it's the fixed range volume profile and you want to look into volumes within the rejection. See this is why you are using flexible volume profile because you can look only in the rejection area like in here I look only in the rejection area and you want to see how volumes were distributed there and you want to see significant volume cluster there in that rejection specifically around the place where the price turned. So somewhere in here you want to see a significant volume cluster like this one. This is a significant volume cluster, right? Let me delete all that and mark just the volume cluster. This is the volume cluster you are interested in. It is important because this is the place where buyers stepped in. Right? So sellers were selling and then a lot of buyers jumped in at this place. You can see that on the volume profile and they reversed the price. And this is the place which is most important for the buyers because most of them jumped in in here before the rejection took place. So this is important place for buyers which they will want to defend in the future. So you identify this volume cluster and you draw a line from the beginning of it right beginning of that volume cluster. So this would be the line and you wait for pullback and when the price hits that level it is a support then you go long from there and that's it. That's the rejection strategy. Now here is another example of it. We have a stronger rejection. within the rejection there's a significant volume cluster close to the place where the price turned this is the significant volume cluster I'm not interested in for example this volume cluster even though the price as you can see reacted to it I'm not interested in that I'm interested in this volume cluster because this is volume cluster which is near the place where the price turned right so you identify this volume cluster you draw a line from the beginning of it like this and then you wait for the pullback. If the pullback occurs, if the price hits that level again, then you go long from there. All right. So this is long trade scenario. We had rejection of lower prices. So this is long trade scenario. Now let me show you short trade scenario. In this case we have rejection of higher prices. As you can see the rejection is very aggressive. It stands out. This is a place where sellers started to jump in and turned the price completely. Right? So we have a strong rejection and within that rejection we have this significant volume cluster. This is the beginning of the volume cluster. You draw a line there and this is your resistance. Right? This is the resistance. You wait for the pullback. In other words, you wait for the price to return back to that level. And when the price hits that, you enter your short trade. You can enter right away with a limit order or you can use for example orderflow confirmation. Either way is okay. By the way, uh the statistics which I was showing you, that's without order flow confirmation, just simple limit orders. By the way, one more thing I wanted to mention here with uh my strategies. Uh in the past, what I used to do was that I used to trade from the heaviest volume peak in uh all those volume clusters in all the strategies. I used to trade from the heaviest volume zone. In this case, it would be from here. But I started to notice that I missed a lot of trades. Like in this case, I would miss this trade. See, I would miss it. That's why I began to start trading from the beginning of a heavy volume zone. In this case, I'm not missing as many trades as before. Now, what I want to show you next is my most favorite volume profile strategy. A strategy which I trade when there's a strong trend. Uh, but before that, just a quick note. If you guys want to join us, trade with me every day, receive my day trading and swing trading signals, get your hands on my indicators, and get a full volume profile education, then you want to go to the Traderdale website. This is it, traderale.com. And if you click trading course and tools, then it will take you to this page where you can browse my trading education and indicator packs. If you are interested in volume profile trading, then this volume profile pack is the best choice for you. If you are interested in orflow trading, VWAP trading or smart market trading, we've got it all. Indicators, education, support, everything you need. If you scroll down a bit, then you can get all those four packs together in one huge bundle for a discounted price. All right? And if you guys are interested in trading with me and other proper traders in a live trading room every day, then you click FTA right here. It stands for Funded Trader Academy. And the best way to go about this is just click this button right here, talk to a mentor, which is me, or one of our traders. We will walk you through the whole service, show you around and then you can decide whether or not uh this is right for you. All right, so let's go back uh to that uh third setup and as I was saying, this is a strategy which you use when the market is trending. That's why it is called the trend strategy. So the first step is look for a strong trend. If you look at this picture then for example like this right this is a strong trend. Step number two use flexible volume profile to look into volumes in that trend. You want to see significant volume cluster like for example this one. What the chart is telling you here is that buyers were pushing the price upwards and then they stopped for a bit in here and they were adding to the long positions before continuing to push the price even higher. And this zone is important for the buyers because they placed massive amounts of the long positions there. Right? So what you do next is you draw a line from the beginning of that heavy volume cluster like this. And this line represents a support. You wait for the price to return back to that level to hit that support and from there you enter your trade. This is a long trade scenario. So in this case you enter along. Now here's another example. We have a strong trend and we used the volume profile to look into the volume distribution within the trend and you want to see significant volume clusters. In this case I was trading this volume cluster not this not this even though as you can see there were actually reactions to those volume clusters here and here. I wasn't trading those, but I was trading this one. And the reason is, and this is actually my favorite combo of two trading setups. Now, pay attention because this is my most favorite thing to trade. You see a trend with a significant volume cluster like this one. And you also see that the price reacted to this level in the past like this. Strong reaction like this means that in the past this worked as a resistance, right? So this level or I should rather say zone because it's not always just one exact level but a zone. This zone worked as a resistance in the past but when the price went past that resistance it became a support right broken resistance became a support. This is a price action setup and it confirms this volume profile setup because it is at the same place as the volume cluster, right? That's why I was trading this volume cluster and not this one or this one, right? Because there was this combo and those combos always have better uh results. So I identified this long level. The level was at the beginning of the volume cluster. Wait for pullback and go long from there. All right, that's it. Now this was a long trade scenario because this was a uptrend. And let me now show you a short trade scenario. In this case, we have a downtrend in here. And within that downtrend, you can see that there's this significant volume cluster right here. Right? So you draw a line from it from the beginning of the volume cluster. And as you can see around this level, there were also those reactions. This one and this one. Not exactly at the level, but very very close to it in that zone. Right? So that means that in the past this was a support because the price was reacting here and now when the price blew past that support the level became a resistance right and at the same time we have that volume cluster this one right so what you do is you wait for pullback when the price hits that level you go short and this is how to trade the short trade scenario. Now, you can obviously trade just this volume profile setup without the price action confirmation, but I really prefer if I find this combo because it is very strong and it is the best thing that I currently have, right? This is working like a charm. So, that's why I always try to look for combos like this because the win rate is simply better. Now, so far we've covered three main volume profile strategies. And now I would like to show you one bonus strategy that I like to trade when things go sour because truth be told there will be losing trades, right? And what I want to show you now is what to do when you take a losing trade. Uh the strategy is called reversals or a reversal trade. uh you trade this when volume profile level fails and the price shoots right through it. So in this example, we had nice volume accumulation setup here. There was heavy volume zone followed by the strong selloff. So what you would normally do is print a line here and wait for the pullback and go short from there. In this case, it would be a losing trade. The price didn't really react there. Now, pay attention because this is where the reversal trade takes place. When the price shoots past a level like this, I mean through significant volume profile zone, then it very often goes back to test that level, the exact level, but from the other side like in here. So what you do is you wait for pullback and exactly from the same level you enter a reversal trade. So in this case you wait for this pullback and from the exact level you go long and very often the price makes a nice reaction here and you're able to make your money back. So this is a reversal trading exactly from the same level only in the other direction. Now one thing to keep in mind and this is important is that you really want to see the price shoot past your level this level with no reaction at all or just a very small reaction. If it starts to react somehow or reacts a little bit sooner or something it's not ideal case where you want to trade the reversal, right? It works best when the price just shoots past the level with no reaction at all because this is telling you that in this case buyers are in control. They pushed through your level. That by the way doesn't mean that your level was wrong or that you made a wrong analysis. It simply means that there is a shift in sentiment in the market and the buyers are in control and you need to adapt. You need to join those buyers. Right? So that's why you wait for the pullback. Very often it occurs and hits that level from the other side and go long from there. Now let me give you another example of this. In here we had a downtrend and a significant volume cluster. That would mean going short from here, right? Wait for pullback, go short from here. It would be a losing trade. The price just went past the level with no reaction at all. Yeah, you took a stop loss there. But it means that right now you can wait for pullback to this level again. Wait for pullback. When the price hits the exact same level, you enter the reversal trade, which in this case is a long, right? Because before you went short, now a reversal trade means from the same level you go long. And this is where you make your money back. Now, let me show you one more example of this. In here, we had the volume accumulation strategy because there was a heavy volume zone in this rotation followed by this strong trend. So, normally you would go long from here. So, wait for pullback, go long from here. This would be a losing trade. But what you do is you wait for the price to reach this level again and from the same level you go short and make your money back. So those are the reversals. Again, keep in mind that it's important that the price shoots past your original level with just a little or no reaction at all. Right? That's important because it shows the strength and determination of those guys pushing through. Right now, we've covered a couple of strategies and I'd like to do a little recap so it's not too confusing. Here are screenshots of the three main strategies. Uh the first one we talked about was the volume accumulation strategy. It goes like this. Uh you identify a rotation which is followed by a trend. You look at the volumes here and you print a line at the place where the heavy volume zone begins like here. You wait for pullback and go short from there. Right? This is a short trade scenario. The second strategy was the rejection strategy where you want to see significant rejection like this one. You identify a heavy volume zone within the rejection somewhere around the place where the price turned. You print a line there at the beginning of the rejection. Wait for pullback. And in this short trade scenario, go short from there. Right? So that's the rejection strategy. And then there's the trend strategy. My favorite. You look for a trend and you use the flexible volume profile to look into the volume distribution in that trend and you want to see significant volume cluster like for example this one. In this long trade scenario, you print a line here at the beginning of that volume cluster and wait for pullback. From this place you go long. All right, those are the three strategies. If they fail, then you can take a reversal trade. So, that's about that. I hope you guys like the video and I hope that you will try those strategies yourself, give a little test and see how they work for you. As I was saying, I've been trading them with just little alterations for around 10 years. As you saw, the results in the long run are rather consistent. So, give it a try. I'm sure that you'll love them. All right, so that's about that. If you like the video, don't forget to subscribe. If you want to join us, then go to my website and you can join us there. We'll be happy to welcome you and I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time. And until then, happy trading.
