TradingView Volume Profile Comparison - Which One Should You Use?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJIDYtCF1Gw

Hey everyone, it's Dale here. If you've ever typed volume profile in trading views indicator list, then I think that you've probably seen quite a lot of volume profiles there and might be that you are feeling quite overwhelmed by the different volume profiles that the trading view offers and yeah, it might be quite confusing because there are so many profiles like session volume profile, HD volume profile, fixed range volume profile, periodic volume profile, anchored volume profile and yeah, this could be quite confusing. But in this video, I'm going to go through each one of them and show you what each one of them does, how to apply them, which one I recommend using, and also I'll show you how to make a powerful volume profile workspace for intraday trading. So, let's get started. So, the first thing I should mention in this video is that for those volume profile indicators to work for you, you need at least the essential pack that the Trading View offers. All right, that that's the cheapest one. It will offer most of the volume profile indicators. In here, you can see the blank uh Trading View chart. And the first volume profile indicator that I'm going to load up is a session volume profile. So, what you want to do is go to indicators and search for volume profile. Scroll down a bit and in here this is a list of trading view profiles that are coded by the coders from trading view. So those are like official volume profiles. Let's go for the session volume profile. Let's load it up. So when you load it up for the first time it looks like this. It shows daily volume profiles. As you can see, each volume profile shows how volumes were distributed each day. This is like the most standard volume profile, right? There's also that black line showing the point of control uh which is the place where the volumes were the heaviest in that day. As you can see, the volume profile is a bit rough. It needs more detail. So the way to fix this is go to settings. Then in here go to tick per row and choose some small number. Let's say two. Click okay. And now it's way more precise. All right. So this is the session volume profile. It's called session because if I go back to the settings then in here you can choose the session where the volumes will show. So for example it could be premarket only or post market or custom. So if I select custom then in here you can select where the volume profile will calculate in which session. In my point of view, you know, this doesn't make too much sense to use this because why would you only want to see volume profile in one session but not, you know, in the rest of a day? Doesn't really make sense in my opinion. So, I would always keep this like this. So, you see how the volumes are distributed throughout each day. All right. So that's the session volume profile. Now the next one will be the session volume profile HD. So let me load that up. And this is how it looks by default. As you can see, it is way more precise, at least by default, than the standard session volume profile. And also there's one cool thing about it. And the thing is that if you zoom in, it actually gets more detailed automatically. So see this is zoomed out. When I start to zoom in, it gets more detailed. This is one extra feature that the previous volume profile I was showing you can't really do. So yeah, I would say that the HD profile is a bit superior to the session volume profile, but you know, this is more or less the only thing it does extra. And by the way, if you want to have the HD version, I think that you actually need to have the premium membership. All right, I think that this is the only volume profile indicator from Trading View where you actually need to have the premium. All right, the rest, as I was saying, the essential pack is just fine. But for the HD profile, you need to have the premium. So, if you guys have the premium, then I would recommend using this one. If you don't, then you just use the standard session volume profile and adjust it so it's more detailed and then you'll have basically the same result. All right. Now, coming next is the periodic volume profile. Now when you load up the periodic volume profile, it will look like this. It's kind of funny. So you need to adjust it. Go to settings and in here you need to choose the period right here at the top. So let me make a weekly volume profile out of this. Okay. So go week and in here it says one. I will also make it a little bit more uh detailed. So I'll go like this and go for example for row size two. Okay. So we have this setting. Press okay. And what it shows now is a weekly volume profile. If I zoom out a bit then you can see that every week there's a volume profile printed. All right. So this volume profile shows how the volumes were distributed in this week. Then the current weekly volume profile. This one is showing how the volumes are distributed uh this current week. All right. So that's the weekly volume profile. You can adjust that obviously for example to a monthly profile or you can use daily profiles. Let me show you. This is quite handy I think. See those are standard daily profiles or you can set it for example to 4hour profile. In this case, uh, volume profile will show a volume distribution every four hours. Looks like this. And yeah, it's quite handy for entry trading as well. So yeah, in my opinion, uh, periodic volume profile is one uh that I would definitely recommend. Later in this video, I'll show you how we can make a a pretty solid workspace using this specific volume profile. But now let's move on a bit and let me show you another volume profile. And the next one will be the fixed range volume profile. This is I would say my most favorite one. The reason is that you can select an area in the chart where you want to see the volume distribution. So you can move it around like this. And this is especially useful for volume profile setups that I trade. For example, in here, I selected a trend area because I'm only interested in volumes in this trend. I'm not interested in daily volume profile, not in weekly volume profile, but in volume distribution, just in this trend trend because I wanted to see significant pullbacks where the price could potentially react. Right? This is one of my strategies. Uh, by the way, there are more of those volume profile strategies using this specific volume profile. You can learn it in a volume profile course you can get on my website. This is my website traderale.com. If you go to trading course and tools. Then in here there's the volume profile pack. The pack includes a volume profile video course. That's like 15 hours of volume profile training, my custom made indicators, tech support, access to my daily and swing trading levels every day. And yeah, it's quite handy if you are interested in volume profile trading and let me now go back to the trading view and let me show you the rest of the profiles. So yeah, as I was saying, this one is uh probably my most favorite profile as you can move it around, look into specific areas and those are not just trends but could be like you want to look how volumes are distributed in uh this rotation or you know how volumes are distributed in um this area where you know from which the price started to go upwards aggressively. All those are important zones in the chart and you want to select only those zones because you know the price likes to react to those zones like for example reaction to this heavy volume zone in here right this is why I selected only this area because this is important zone in the chart right so anyways I definitely recommend using this profile and let me now show you the next And uh the next one will be the visible range volume profile. If you load it up then by default looks like this kind of rough but uh we can adjust it. Uh what it basically shows is the volume distribution from the area which you currently have on your screen. Right? That's why it's called visible range. If I zoom out a bit, then the volume profile will adjust because right now it's showing us the volumes of the whole screen basically. Right now again you want to make this more detailed because you know this is not any good. So you go to settings and in here you go to tick per row and go for example five. Now it's more detailed and uh the thing I like about this profile is that it shows the big picture. Right? If you look at it, you immediately know where the most important volume zones are. Right? You can see that there's a huge volume zone in here at this price level. Then huge volume zone in here at this price level. Then this one, then also there's this one smaller one. but could also be important with some strategies. So with this profile, you immediately know where are the important zones, what the big picture is, and what's going on on the chart. Right? I'm not using this profile as a standalone profile, as a standalone strategy, but I combine it with different profiles and I find it quite useful. All right, so the last one will be the auto anchored volume profile. Let me load it up and let me show you. If you load it up, it looks like this. If you go to settings, then in here you can select where you want to anchor that profile. That means where do you want the profile to start calculating from, right? So for example, could be the highest high. So as you can see it's calculating from this point which is the highest high of this area or for example lowest low highest volume or from start of the week month year you know truth be told I don't really think that this volume profile is of any use I think that this is typical example of an indicator which is made by coder but not by a trader because I can't really see a scenario where trader would actually use this because as a trader you want to see like daily profiles or fixed range profiles or profile which will show you the volumes on the whole screen but you know why would you anchor the volume profile to the highest point for example of the day and why would you only be interested in this area? This is kind of not my cup of tea. If you do want to select a specific area, then you just go and use the fixed range volume profile and you just click left, click right and you know select the area yourself and you are all set. All right. So now we've covered all the profiles that the trading view offers. Uh let me now do a very very brief recap. So this is the session volume profile which basically shows uh daily profiles. It's a bit rough, but that's how it is by default. Then there is the session volume profile HD, which by default looks like this. You can zoom in for more detail and it's generally better. It shows daily profiles and the only downside is that you need to have the premium subscription. The next one was the periodic profile where you can manually select the period where it will calculate. So this is like the 4hour profile. You can change it for example to weekly profile. So it will show a volume distribution throughout every week and so on. Very handy profile in my opinion. Then there's the fixed range where you can select the period where the volume profile will show you the volume distribution. Then there's the visible range which looks like this and shows you the volumes throughout the whole area on your screen. And the last one that's the auto anchored which automatically anchors at selected point like for example high of day low of day and so on. And as I was saying I'm not really into this one too much. All right. So that's for the little recap and let me now show you how you can make a pretty solid volume profile workspace here. So let me just get rid of this one because I definitely don't want to use this one for the workspace. And let me start by using the periodic volume profile. So I'll load up this one first. And we need to adjust it. So go to settings. And I want uh a weekly profile. This is a weekly profile. This is how you can make it more detailed. And this is how it looks like. So those are weekly volume profiles here. Then the next profile I'm going to use is going to be the visible range volume profile because I also want to see the big picture, right? It's not too detailed. So again, I want to make it more detailed. And I'll do it like this. Row size five or even 10 should do the trick. So this is showing me the big picture. And then what I also do is I load up my favorite fixed range volume profile. And that's the volume profile that I use for looking for specific setups. Let me zoom this in a bit. This one is sort of fixed. This is fixed. Uh this is fixed. Those are the weekly profiles. And this one, you can move it around and look for specific setups, which I think is pretty handy. And uh yeah, this is how a pretty solid volume profile workspace can look like. I recommend you give it a try. Try to create that specific workspace yourself. See how it works for you. See how you like it. Obviously, you can change the colors, the opacity, more or less everything about it. But, you know, the basic layout stays. It looks like this. And uh yeah, I'm pretty sure that you like it. So, that's for that. I hope you guys enjoyed the video. I hope you learned something new. And I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time in some next video. And until then, happy trading.
