📈 How to Trade With Anchored VWAP | Ultimate Guide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eyiwT5B3MM4

Hey everyone, it's Dale here. What you're about to see is a recording of one of my most popular webinars on VWAP and anchored VWAP. Traders really enjoyed this session and right now you have a chance to go through the whole training yourself. Inside you'll learn why VWAP is such a powerful trading tool, how to use it, how to properly anchor it, and also how to use it in real trading conditions. So enjoy and here we go. Now, if you guys remember, I promised you a gift. And here it is. It's a brand new book about VWAP trading. It's called VWAP, the insidider guide to trading. And you can get it as a gift for free on this address, which you can see below the picture, and I also dropped it below the video description. So, you can get the book for free there. And uh if you guys want a printed version of the book, you can get it on Amazon. But on Amazon, you'll need to cover the printing and the shipping cost. But if you want the ebook, you can download it for free on this address. Right now, in this webinar, here is what you will learn. First, we'll cover some VWAP basics like what VWAP is, how it differs to other standard indicators and why it works. Then we will cover VWAP trading setups. Uh then we will cover combos of multiple trading setups. We will cover takerit and stop-loss placement. And we will cover money management. If you guys have any questions, then leave them in the chat and I'll try and answer them as we go or in the end of the webinar. All right. So, VWAP stands for value weighted average price. In other words, uh an average price that takes into account the trading volume. So, VWAP tells us where the average trader placed their orders. And because of this, uh, VWAP is a great reference point for traders, right? Because it's showing the average trader. Now here is uh the difference between VWAP and standard average indicators like for example the simple moving average or the exponential moving average. So if you look at those and the their calculation, they only use time and price in their calculation, right? But VWAP uses time, price, and volume. And volume makes all the difference because through volume we track the big trading institutions that move and manipulate the markets. Right? Here is uh how you can calculate the VWAP. But I don't really think that you'll ever need this. Uh I think that you just need to remember that VWAP represents the real average of all market participants and that this is making it way more valuable than standard moving average indicators. Now why does VWAP work? Three facts. Fact number one, 80% of trading orders come from large trading institutions. Fact number two, these trading institutions primarily use automated systems or algorithms to ex execute their trades. And fact number three, those automated systems very often rely on VWAP. Let me show you something. It's a proof of what I'm saying. Those two snippets here. Uh those are snippets from hearing before committee of financial services. Those are taken from speech of Kenneth Griffin who is CEO of Citadel which is one of the largest trading institutions and this guy there he was speaking about their trading practices. All right. So let's see what this guy had to say there during this hearing. So he's saying that it has been reported that approximately 20% of market volume is now attributable to retail customers. See this that's what I was saying 80% is institutions 20% is retail. Now another important thing here that's the second snippet. Virtually all trades executed by institutional investors are in the form of program trades such as volume weighted average price. That's a VWAP. So what this guy is saying that most of the trades are institutional trades and that those huge institutions use automated systems such as VWAP and that's why we should use VWAP. That's why it is so important and that's why it works because the big biggest guys in the industry are using it for their trades. And that's a fact. Now in the next part, I'll explain my VWAP trading strategies. You can use that with any trading instrument. My favorites are major forex pairs like the Euro dollar or Australian US dollar or the British pound US dollar and indices. My favorite is S&amp;P 500, but you can use it for any trading instrument you like. And also you can use the strategies for any time frame. My favorite for intraday trading is 30 minute time frame. And for swing trading or long-term position trading, that's the daily time frame. But if for example you are a sculper or an intraday trader trading with one minute time frame or five minute time frame that's completely fine. VWAP is universal so you can use it on any time frame and on any trading instrument. Now, VWAP represents the trading position of an average trader and many market participants use it as a reference point for their trade entries. Now, imagine you want to enter a short trade on this chart here. Price is dropping. You want to enter a short trade. So where is the best place to enter the short position? It's not wise to enter randomly or at the current daily low. But the logical entry point is where the average market participant sold. You want to sell for a fair value, not at daily low but at fair value, which is represented by VWAP in this chart. That's the blue line. Right? So when the price makes pullback to VWAP, this is where you want to sell because this is the fair price. Now if an institutional algorithm is trading, then the goal for the day could be for example sell X amount of lots on Euro dollar at VWAP or better in this case. Better means here, right? That's how it could look like for an institutional algorithm. Sell at VWAP or better. So in this picture you see the price dropping below the VWAP then making pullback to it and sellers selling for the fair price for the average price here and then triggers that triggers that sell off. Right? So general strategy for a short trade is wait until the price is below VWAP, wait for the pullback to VW up and short from there. That's the general strategy for a short trade. Now for a long trade scenario, it's the same only reversed. If the price is above VWAP like for example here that means buyers are in control and it comes back to VWAP line then you want to enter long from VWAP that's the most basic way how to trade with VWAP personally I like to see bit more before making a trade I want to see some confirmation or a combo of multiple strategies. We will cover that later. And uh let's just focus here on this example. This is a simple example. We have VWOP starting here at the start of the day. So the VWAP shows the average uh market participants since the start of the day. This is the daily VWAP. Right? Now the big question big question is where do we anchor the VWAP? Because like everything depends on that. Where do we anchor the VWAP? You want to anchor the VWAP at crucial points in the market. Those are points where market participants made crucial decisions where market sentiments shifted and where rules of the game changed. So the most important places where you want to anchor the VWAP, those are the crucial points. I listed my most favorite ones. So I recommend anchoring VWAP to beginning of day, beginning of week, beginning of year. Then another important place where you can enter the anchor the VWAP is at important swing point. Then important heavy volume zone and there's more but today we're going to focus on those. All right. So let's start with anchoring VWAP to dates which is anchoring VW up to start of the day, start of the week, start of the month and start of the year. So anchoring to start of the day that's I would say the most common use of VWAP. So we will start with that. As I was saying, it is important to note uh the daily view up because it is telling us uh and showing us the average position since the start of the day. All right, what's the fair price since the start of the day or a week or a month or a year? So, let's check out couple of examples here. So what you see before you here is Australian dollar US dollar 5 minutes chart and this is the start of the day. So the VWAP is anchored to this place and what you see here is the price is moving above the VWAP which means buyers are in control and you want to trade from VWAP. So you want to trade the pullbacks. So first pullback is in here long from there. Another one is in here. Then there's pullback in here. And then another long is from this place. But what happens here is that sellers take control. Let me draw a line here. Up until this point you should be long biased. The reason is that the price is moving above VWAP and buyers are in control. So you want to take longs from the VWAP line. But when the price drops below VWAP, that means that the average trader since the start of the day from since this point is starting to lose money. So what they want to do those guys who are losing money they want to quit their longs where they want to quit them at a fair price which is represented by VWAP. So that means that those guys to get rid of their long positions they need to sell. So they sell. This is what they trigger. And this is what they trigger. So when the price dropped below the VWAP, you should no longer look for longs, but you should be short biased, but only for a short time here because then everything changes back and you should take long from here. After that, there is the end of the day. volatility has died out and generally speaking you don't want to trade using VWAP when the price is doing this when there's low volatility not much is happening low liquidity and it is the end of the day you don't want to use VWOP there because VWAP works best when markets are volatile and when markets are trending not in situation like this. All right. Now, let's go to the next example. This is S&amp;P 500 5 minute chart. Again, we have VWAP anchored to the start of a day and you trade pullbacks. So, first pullback long from there. Another pullback long from there. You always want to see the price move above the VWAP before uh the pullback like I mean whole candles above the VWAP. So and our pullback is in here. This is sort of a long zone with multiple long trade entries. And this is uh the last one. This is a simple scenario because the whole time we are long biased because all the time the price is moving above the VWAP. This is I would say sort of the best scenario usually it's not like that. Now here is uh another example. This is a weekly VWAP which means it's anchored at the start of the week. is in here. You are looking at gold futures chart. Uh it is a 30 minute time frame and you want to trade u pullbacks to VWAP. The strategy is always the same. You trade pullbacks to VWAP. First pullback is in here. Then another touch is in here. Another one is in here. All the time sellers are in control. The market is trending which is great. VWAP works great in trending market like this. In here there is short. Again this one is a losing trade and then you need to shift the bias from short to long. In this case, it's really not no use here because this is the end of the week and I definitely recommend closing all trades before the uh the end of the week because imagine you are short from here. You are still in the short in here. you're still in a short and if you are if you don't quit the position before the end of the week boom gap you don't want to be caugh in that right so that's why you want to quit the trade before the end of the week right now here's another example this is again uh the weekly VWAP which means means that it's anchored to the start of the week that's in here. So this is your dollar 30 minute chart and the way to go about trading this is longs from here. By the way, this is a missed trade. Unfortunately, the price didn't reach a VWAP. Then long from here, if you look closely, there actually was a reaction. But notice this strong macro news on the US dollar exactly at that time and you don't want to trade during strong macro news at least not in trades right so this would be no trade from here but important thing happened here up until this point we were long biased, but the price dropped below the VWAP. Sellers pushed through. That means that sellers are in control and that means you should be short biased, which means look for shorts. Unfortunately, here the price missed the VW up. So, no short from here. No short from here either, unfortunately. But this is a nice pullback. So, uh, short from there. Now, this is VWAP anchored to start of the year. You're looking at Exon Mobile cooperation chart. It is a daily chart. I use the daily chart for the with the yearly uh VWAP. So this is the start of the year. In this example, it is pretty straightforward because as you can see all the time buyers are in control and you don't need to shift your bias which means you just takes you just take longs from the VWAP line. As you can see the price is reacting to that very nicely. It's not always this case obviously this is very nice example that I picked but I wanted to show you uh the ideal scenario that like if the price is moving like this it's trending and making those pullbacks that's sort of a I would say a healthy trend then this is exactly the scenario where VWAP works best and where you will have multiple very nice trade entries. That's where you want to use VWAP. All right. Now, let's cover anchoring VWAP to important swing points. A swing point is a place where market sentiment changed. Now I don't have exact definition of a swing point but if you look at any chart it's usually pretty simple to spot. It's usually the most prominent place on the chart. So if the chart for example looks like this then this is the place that you want to anchor the VW up to. That's the swing point, right? And if you anchor VW up here to the candle which created the swing high or swing low, if you anchor the VW up there, it will show you what's the average position since this important place. And this is really important place because all traders who are trading that trading instrument see this important swing point and they base their trading decisions around it. You'll see it very nicely on those examples here. Now if you look at this chart and this is by the way uh Apple uh daily chart if you look at here then what's the most prominent place here the most prominent swing point is this one right everybody looking at this chart sees that so you want to anchor the view up to this candle which created that swing high and VWAP shows the average trader since that point. So you want to trade pullbacks to that. All right now first pullback is here but at this point you don't really know that this is going to be strong swing high right you don't. So no trade from here. But the second pullback is in here and that actually is a valid trade entry point and you can enter the short from there. Another short zone is here, here, and here. Then another here. This would be a losing trade. But look at here earnings. Earnings caused this gap and after earnings the price was moving above the VWAP. Which means that again you need to switch from short bias to long bias which means long from here. All right. Now here's another example. This is Australian dollar US dollar daily chart. This is very strong swing point here. And if you anchor the VWAP to this candle to this bullish candle that formed the low, did I say bullish? I meant um bearish to this red candle that formed uh the low. Then the VWAP uh will show you the average uh trader since this point average position. So pull back to this place long from there. Again price hits this fair price and long from there. As you can see it's always the same. It's only about where you anchor the VWAP. In this case, this is your dollar 30 minute chart. Again, if you look at the chart, what's the most prominent place every trader sees here? It is this right this strong swing point where uptrend turned into a downtrend. So you anchor the VWAP to this candle which created the high of this swing point and pullbacks from there. First pullback, second, third. Here's the last one. Right. As you can see, the price really respects those places as the traders like to react to that fair price. Now, here is S&amp;P 500 30 minute time frame. Again, if you look at the chart, what's the most prominent place here? This this is it. Sentiment changed here. The game changed here. And all traders know that. So they based their trading decisions around this. So that's why the price likes to react to VWAP. This reaction and then this reaction. Now here is the last example. Again it's very similar. This is Euro dollar 30 minutes chart. Again we have very strong swing high. BWAP is anchored here on this example. Actually there's only one trade entry which is which is here. All right in here in this place the price missed the VWAP. So I hope that was clear and let's now cover anchoring VWAP to significant heavy volume zones. This is where you can combine VWAP with volume profile which is pretty cool I think. So heavy volume zone shows us the big guys the big trading institutions. We identify those heavy volume zones with volume profile. This is how it can look like. It has many shapes depending on the volume distribution. This is just one of the shapes it can take. The wider the volume profile is, the heavier volumes were traded at that price level. Now, how to go about this? If you look at the picture, it shows a rotation in here where heavy volumes were traded. And usually it is like this. When you have a rotation, usually heavy volumes are traded in a rotation. The reason is that the big guys, the trading institutions, they have insane amounts of capital and they need to allocate that uh slowly and unnoticed in the market, right? So they do it in rotations. That's why in rotation there are typically heavy volumes. So first thing you want to see a rotation where heavy volumes were traded. From there you want to see a trend activity like here. When you see this what you do is you anchor VWAP to that candle which is at the end of the heavy volume rotation and at the start of that trend. And then as usual, you trade pullbacks like long from here. Now I know what you think. You think that what if I anchor the view up here or what if I anchor the view up here? Would it all be wrong? No. In most cases, it won't. It doesn't really matter which in this example for example from those candles which you choose to anchor the VWAP the VWAP will look more or less the same regardless which candle you choose. So there is no exact rule and you won't make a mistake if you choose let's say in this example any of those three but you should target the last candle of uh the rotation and the first candle of that uh new trend. Now let me show you a couple of examples that will make it clearer. This is Euro dollar 30 minute chart. In here there is a rotation and in that rotation there's a heavy volume zone. From that strong trend activity started. So what you do is you anchor the VWA up to the last candle of that of that rotation and the start of the trend. That's this huge red candle. So you anchor the VWAP there and from there it's as usual pullbacks to VWAP. So short from here, short from here only a small reaction and then a rotation. So you don't really want to trade in that rotation. But if you do, you would probably end up uh with a loser here. But then you need to shift your bias because of this because the price is moving above the VWAP. So from shorts you want to trade longs longs from VWAP. All right. Now here's another example. This is Euro dollar 30 minutes chart. Again we have a rotation where heavy volumes were traded and from that rotation we have a trend. So you anchor the VWAP at the start of a trend. That's this candle and trade pullbacks. So this is the first pullback. This is the second pullback. This is the third pullback. In this case, it looks like the price went below VWAP and didn't really respect it. But if you look here, it was not even 10 pips. So, nothing too terrible. I would still count this as a viable reaction uh to a to the VWAP. Now, here is the last example of this. It is on Tesla and it is daily chart. In here you can see a rotation followed by a trend. In the rotation you have heavy volumes and you anchor the VWAP here to this candle which is start of this trend and end of the rotation. This is first pullback, but you don't trade from there because at this point, you don't really know that the rotation is over and that new trend is starting. So, no trade from here, but right here, there's a nice opportunity for a short. Now, I want you to notice one thing here. Let's take a look at this gray profile on the left. That's a yearly profile that shows volume distribution over the whole year. Take a look at this heavy volume zone where it is right here. It aligns with our VWOP and that massively adds strength to that short trade signal because it's not only based on the VWAP but also it is based on very very significant heavy volume zone from the yearly volume profile which brings us to the next topic which is combos or confluencies with uh other trading strategies. Let me quickly check the chat here. Wow. I wonder if I'm going to be able to cover all those things you guys wrote here. Okay, let me just pick a couple of them here. Um, this is a good one. Uh when swing trading, can you keep your positions over the weekend or should you also close them? I keep them over the weekend. Swing trading on daily charts, I do keep them over weekend and also I keep those trades open uh during macron. If the macronuse isn't like extremely strong macronuse like let's say like FOMC or rate decision or maybe some important elections but yeah I do hold those because other otherwise you would be just you know jumping in and out all the time from those swings. So yeah, that's how I go about this. And um I ran a couple of tests on the results if it's better to close the positions over the weekend or before strong macro news or no. And I didn't really see any difference there. Now I'm talking about swing trades, right? So I didn't really see any difference with swings. So I just keep those open. Yeah, this is like a holy grail, guys. This is not a holy grail. This is VWAP. It depends on you if it's a holy grail or not. It depends on you. But it's a it's a very good tool if you combine it with volume profile. Then it's really strong. I'll show you the combos. The combos are really the best thing I think from this presentation here. Where do you put take profit and stop loss? We'll cover that. Uh we'll cover that later. Um, let me see if there's anything else here that I could answer. Where do you get anchored VWAP? I'll show you guys. I actually do have anchor VWAP. I'll show you. The easiest way is Trading View, but I also have VWAP for Trading View and it works with the free version, which is cool. All right, let's continue guys. Let's continue with the presentation here and then I'll just I'll jump again to the to the questions. So now I'll talk about the combos. Combos is where more independent setups point to one strong support or resistance zone. Right? So, so far we've covered some simple VWAP setups which are solely based on VWAP and those tend to give good results. However, those are relatively simple, right? And they may not always produce consistent results. But if you want consistency and better win rate here, you want to use those combos. I personally seek combos for all my trades. If I can find any kind of combo, I try my best to find combos for all my trades. I would say maybe 80 or 90% of all my trades are based on combos. Right now, in here, we'll cover combos of VWAP and price action and volume profile. So let me show you on a couple of examples here. This is S&amp;P 500 uh five minute chart. Um this is daily VWAP here. Anchor to the start of the day. This is when the roll over is right. This is the start of the Asian session. I know that some of you guys asked in the chat. So that's uh that's where the Asian session starts. That's what I count as the start of the day. So here is where the price is moving way below the VWAP and makes pullback to the VWAP. And normally if you are trading just based on the VWAP strategy which I showed you, you would just go short from there without any other like uh thoughts. But since we are talking about combos, let me show you a combo here. So notice how the price was reacting here in the past. This means that this zone in the past worked as a support until this point where the support got breached and the support became a resistance. I really like this setup. You guys know it, right? This is old price action setup. It's not mine, but I really like to combine it with my other trading setups like this one, like the VWAP setup. So, in this case, as you can see, the price action resistance is very close to that VWAP resistance which is in here. Not exactly to the point at this place but very close. Resistances and supports they are not like exact places. There are zones. If those meet in in this general area if they are close then I count it as a valid combo and I trade trade from there because combos have way better win rate. All right. So this is a combo of price action setup and VWAP. Now in here we have a triple combo actually. This is a combo of price action setup, volume profile setup and VWOP setup. So let's start with the VWOP setup here. If you look at volume profile, it shows heavy volumes here in this rotation. And this is where you anchor the VWOP at the start of the trend. And this is where the price gets very very close to the VWAP. Now let's take a look here. You see this important swing high, this pin bar. This shows that in the past this worked as a strong resistance, right? Because the price was reacting very sharply to this place, very strongly here. The resistance got breached and it became a support very close to the VWAP. But that's not all. Let me change the color of the marker here. If you look at the volume profile, there's this volume bump. I like to trade from beginnings of those volume bumps like in here. By the way, those volumes were traded in this place, right? And this is where those volumes get tested for the first time. So we have volume profile setup here. We have price action setup here. We also have VWOP setup here. all pointing to this place. And that's the combo. That's what it's telling you. It's shouting at you to go long from there. All right. Now, what I do is I trade from the uh first, let's say, first barrier of that combo. In this case, it's from here. right? Not from, let's say, from the VWAP. I trade from the first barrier because I don't want to miss the trade entry. So, if I were trading based only on VWAP, I would miss the trade entry right here. I would miss it. So, that's why I trade from the first barrier. All right. Next example. This is Bitcoin. uh long rotation. Oh, and it is a daily chart. It is example back from the old days when Bitcoin was under 20K not so long ago. Anyways, um we have a rotation with uh heavy volumes here followed by a strong trend. And if we start with the VWAP, then it's anchored to this candle. I counted this as the start of the trend. It could as well be anchored to this candle, but I anchored it here. And this is where the price made pullback to it. Right? So this is the VWOP setup. Now let's talk about volume profile here. I like to use volume profile over trend areas like this and look for significant volume clusters within the trends like this volume cluster and as I was saying I like to trade from the beginnings of those heavy volume zones. See it aligns very nicely with VWOP. So we have nice two setup combo here. By the way, uh if you look closely here, um there is also this little reaction which means there was a resistance in the past. Let me try and draw a straight line here. And this resistance turned into a support when the price breached that resistance. support, right? So, actually this is a another um factor that adds strength to that level. That's exactly what you want to see when the market gives you such a combo. Then you just trade it. No need for any sort of confirmation. Just jump in and go long. Now, here is a last example of the combos. This is Proctor and Gamble company five minute chart. In here I have two VWOPs. One is anchored to this swing low right here. This is where it's anchored. The second VWAP is anchored after the gap. After this gap. By the way, this is also another way where you can anchor the VWAP. Especially if you trade stocks after gaps because for stock traders gaps are really important places. So we have those two anchored VWAPs and if you see if you look here they sort of make like a support zone. Also let's take a look at this volume profile here specifically into this zone. which points let me change the color here. It points to the same place as those two anchored VWOPS. So all those are giving you the signal to go long from there. All right. So this is how you can use the combos that are really powerful. If for some reason you guys don't want to look for those combos and if you just want to focus on VWAP setups alone, then I recommend not trading each of those uh blindly. I mean not trading each hit of VUAP blindly. I recommend uh waiting for confirmation. So in this example, this is uh a long trade scenario where the price is above the VWAP, drops to the VWAP line which acts as a support, but you don't enter long at first touch. I don't recommend that if it's not a combo. I recommend waiting for confirmation. Confirmation is when a bullish candle this one closes above VWAP. This is where it closes above VWAP. This is the place from which you go long. The reason why you wait for this candle to close is that it gives you the signal uh that buyers are jumping in that the market is going to react to that VW up. Right? So if you don't use combos then at least work with those confirmations. It doesn't need to be this exact confirmation. If you are advanced trader, if you use for example or already flow, then yeah, that's I I would think the best confirmation you can get. If you are a price action trader, then I recommend something like this. Now, here is a short trade confirmation. We have a VWAP anchored to this heavy volume zone here, but that's not too important here. This is the pullback. Normally, you would go short from there, but you want to see a confirmation, right? This candle closes below the VWAP and that's the confirmation. So, this is the place you go short from, right? A bearish candle closes below a resistance. Now finally take profit and after that we'll cover stop-loss. Let me see the questions you guys had. Yeah, Ninja Trader as well. You can have anchored VWOP in Ninja Trader as well. I also have anchored VWAP in Metatrader. How do you anchor VWAP to chart? Well, it depends on the on the platform, but usually it's super simple. You just select the indicator and you click in the chart. Super easy. Yeah. Yeah. The uh the pictures which you saw were from Trading View. I think up up until this point, the next one the next couple of pictures will be from uh Ninja Trader and those will be with my customate anchor the VWAP. How to set the uh VWAP parameters? Usually, I wouldn't really mess with that. There's not really too much you want to uh you want to set there in the settings. Just make sure you have the calculation should be using open, high, low, close, slash four, right? Sometimes they do it like slash three. I believe in trading view they have it like that. That's in my opinion not the correct way how to use that. I don't know why they have it like this. It's it's stupid. I think Trading View is like big part just coders and not traders. At least the guys who do the platform because some of the indicators, wow, don't get me started on that. All right, let's talk about take profit. Let's talk about take profit and then we'll talk about stop-loss placement. Uh there is main rule, one main rule to follow here. uh take profit goes before a barrier. We will talk about bar barriers based on volumes, price action and VWAP. Now, here are a couple of examples. Uh this is Euro dollar 30 minutes chart and this is Ninja Trader 8 by the way with my customade indicators. So, this is my volume profile indicator. this blue line that's my anchored uh VWAP indicator. So in this example we have very strong swing low in here. So the VWAP is anchored to this place. Um here is a pullback. So it is long from here. And if you're long from here and thinking about where to quit the trade in this example, it is pretty straightforward because we have a massive heavy volume zone here which could potentially work as a resistance. The price usually have problems uh going through resist uh through heavy volume zones. So that's why you want to take profit here before the price reaches this resistance. So actually in this example it would be best to just quit a little bit before that just to make sure. All right, as you can see the price did really react first in here, then this massive solve in here. All right. So, it would be a huge risk to try and go past this. I wouldn't really recommend this. All right. So, that's why I'm saying take the profit before the barrier. Don't risk a fight if you don't have to. Now, in this example, we have strong swing low. So, the VWAP is attached to that. there is a pullback to that VWAP. So long from there and in this example a good uh place to take the profit would be based on those heavy volumes here. This place is important because there was very strong rejection of higher prices or swing high if you will. And within that place there was this heavy volume zone that shows sellers sellers jumping in finally winning over the aggressive buyers here and pushing the price downwards. So this is important place for sellers. those sellers could become active again and you don't want to risk that because potentially this could be a turning point. Boom. Didn't happen. That was at the end of the day. Volatility died out. I don't know what about you guys, but I hate being stuck in rotations like these. So, best to take the profit here before the price reaches this resistance. By the way, I remember this chart because after this rotation, there really was a sell off. It's not here, but not on this picture, but it was there after that couple of hours after, I think. So, in the end, there really was that uh reaction. All right, on to the next example. Um here we have a strong swing high. So the VWAP is anchored there. This is a pullback to that VWAP. So it is short from this place. Boom boom boom. This is the reaction. And if you are in this beautiful short and looking for a good place to take the profit, then you should definitely look into this area where the price was before. And you want to look for significant heavy volume zones like this one. This one is screaming at me because this was strong rejection. strong rejection of lower prices where massive volumes were traded. This screams at me that I should take the profit here because the price could react to that and go upwards. In this case, it didn't didn't really happen instantly, but in the end, maybe the market just went for that liquidity below this and then just went upwards. But this would be the place to take the profit just to be sure you don't lose all you gained in here. All right, here's another example. There is a little rotation uh where heavy volumes were traded. From there there is a strong trend. So you anchor the VWAP here and trade pullbacks. First pullback is in here. So it is nice little short from this place and the price is going towards this heavy volume zone and you don't want to trade against that. So you take the profit here. One more thing uh to give you warning here is this little high this one. It's not too strong but it shows a place where the price reacted which means it was a resistance which turned into a support when the price blew past that resistance. So it turned into new support right here. So another thing that adds strength to that support based on those volumes and as you can see the price really did make a reaction there. All right. So that's the ideal take profit here before the price hits this heavy volume zone. Ideally couple of pips before just to make sure. Now here's the last example of this. Again we have a strong swing high. VW up is anchored here to that candle which formed uh the high of that swing point. And here is a pullback to it. So short from there. And in this case the barrier where you want to take the profit is based on VWAP. This VWAP is anchored to this significant swing low. That's this candle. That's the candle that formed the low. And here is where the price hits the VWAP from this short. And there's a risk that the price will turn because this is a strong low and the VWAP represents the fair price since that low and there could be a reaction. At first there wasn't. After some time there was but the safest place is quit couple of pips before the VWOP right here. All right. Now, let's talk about stop-loss. Again, there is one rule. Stop-loss goes behind a barrier. So, take profit is before a barrier. Stop-loss is behind a barrier because the barrier should protect your trade. That's why stop-loss is behind it. If barrier barrier fails then you take the stop loss then you stop hoping and take the stop loss right. Um barrier is very often at least in my case has swing point or heavy volume zone. If there is no barrier in the close area where you want to take or um place the stop loss, then you can use fixed stop-loss which is for example 15 or 20 pips depending on the trading instrument depending on the volatility. All right, but only if you can find any barrier. Let me show you on a couple of examples. So this is your dollar a 30 minute chart. There is a swing low here. Pull back to it. So long from here and ideal place for stop-loss is the closest uh swing point. In this case it is here. I mean the closest swing point uh closest to the trade entry. So if you enter here then the closest swing point is this one behind that you place the stop loss. Actually I do place it exactly at that low. Not pip below it. No two pips below it. No exactly there. All right. Here's next example. Um here is a swing low. VWAP is anchored to that candle of the swing low. Here is the pullback which means long from there. And if you go long from there, you should place uh the stop loss below the nearest swing point. Now if you look closely, it is this one right here. But that would be just insanely close to uh the long trade entry and you need to let your trades breathe a bit, right? They need some room. So I wouldn't place the stop loss here in this case. In this specific case, I would choose the second nearest swing point, which is this one. All right? So stop loss would go here. Now in this case there are actually uh two ways uh how we can place the stop loss. Um so here is the view up the blue line. It's anchored to this swing point. This is a first pullback. We'll talk about this later. This is the second pullback. So short from there. By the way, take profit at heavy volume zone before heavy volume zone and stop loss if it is above uh the closest swing point it is here but it's very very far like this distance that's very far. So and this at this K in this case you want to place uh the stop loss based on um the volatility let's say or ATR indicator which shows the average true range the average volatility and could be for example 15 or 20 pips right let's make it simple just use fixed stop loss if uh the closest barrier is too far so the fixed one could be for example here or here. All right. Now, um yeah, this is that trade I wanted to show you here. Um VOP is anchored to this swing point. There's that pullback to it. So, short from there. If you remember, we were already talking about this example because this was the heavy volume zone for the takerit, right? And um let me delete that. The closest swing point is this one. So that's where you place the stop loss. By the way, uh remember when I was saying that heavy volumes are very often in rotations. Now here is a rotation. So it's very likely that heavy volumes are here making a barrier and stop loss should be behind barrier. So in this case it is behind this barrier behind this heavy volume barrier and at the same time above this swing point which is great. That's like the ideal place for a stop loss. Now in this example, this is the last one. Uh this is Euro dollar 30 minute chart and we have VWAP anchored to this swing high. First pullback is in here short from this place. By the way, we already had this example. If you remember when we were talking about the takerit here, we'll talk about the stop-loss which is above the closest swing point. That's this one. And again, if you notice this rotation, and I bet if I used volume profile here. Unfortunately, on this screenshot, I didn't have the volume profile here. But if there was volume profile, I bet there would be massive volumes here in this rotation. So, heavy volume barrier. Above that, there is that swing point. So again this is ideal place to place the stop loss right. I like places like this behind heavy volume zone and above swing point. Now since VWAP works best in trending markets it's good idea to trail trades. This is quite a big topic. I cover that in my view up course. But in here, I'll show you at least this one example how you can go above this in a trending market. So in this example, we have uh VWAP anchored here to this swing low and there's pullback to it. So it is long from here. The first stop loss is in here. And as the price goes higher and higher, you want to tighten the stop loss. You want to trail it. So you move it below swing point in here. Price goes higher and higher and higher. Again, you move the stop loss below swing point in here. And you continue doing that. again below swing point until the price reaches strong barrier. You take profit there or the price does this and hits your stop loss. All right. So this is the general way how you go about uh trading those uh trades. This is how you can get most of the trade when the market is trending. Now here is a little advice on uh position sizing. Some traders uh they like to change the amount they risk based on how confident they feel about the trade. So if they are really sure about the trade, they might they might risk more and if they are not too sure they might risk less. Now I'm not a fan of this approach for two reasons. First reason is that feelings are hard to measure. So, it's not a reliable method. Second reason, in my experience, even the trades that don't look perfect can be just as successful as the ones that do seem perfect at first place, right? So, that's why I prefer to stick to a solid plan and use the same position size for all my trades. So I recommend risking for example 2% of account balance per trade and keep it at uh that. Don't change it based on how you feel. All right? So don't adjust risk per trade based on how you feel about a trade. Now, since calculating how much to risk for each separate trade can be a hassle, especially when take profit and stop loss are different number of pips in every trade. I recommend using my trade manager software. It has a lot of useful features. I listed them here. Calculating position size, adjusting takeprofit and stop-loss with just one click. Simplified limit orders also with just one click. Protecting your trade that means moving stop-loss, partial position closure with just one click. And this very, very unique feature, securing limit orders before macron. I don't really think any other software around the internet actually has that feature. So, I think it's pretty unique. You can download the trade manager for free on this address. It is a lifetime license. You can use it on any computer you want, on any number of computers you want. No strings attached. You just get it, use it, and if you guys like it, then tell your friends about it. All right. All right, so we are getting near to the end of the webinar and since you guys stayed here until the end and proved that you really want to bring your trading to the next level, I'll make you this very special offer on the new VWAP pack which I just released today. Here is here is what it includes. It includes a new VWOP video course who is designed for those who want to specialize in VWAP trading. It has 31 uh VWAP videos spread around uh 9 hours of play time. Uh the VWAP pack also includes my custommade VWAP and anchored VWAP indicators. Um they are for Trading View uh even for the free version of Trading View. So you don't really need to pay anything to trading view. So they work with Trading View, Ninja Trader, Metatrader 4, Metatrader 5, all those super easy to use. So you'll get that in the VWAP pack and as well, you're going to get the volume profile pack, which is a set of my custommade volume profile indicators. again for various trading platforms. And the reason I'm including the volume profile software in this VWAP pack is because the volume profile works very nicely with the VWAP and anchored VWAP. You saw that in the combos and in the video course. I'll show you exactly how to go about this, how you can combine those to get very very good results. All right, so that's included in the VWAP pack as well. And at top of that there's the tech support which means that this guy will connect to your computer install everything including the platform indicators. He'll connect you to data. He will help you with loading up my workspaces and he'll basically help you with everything that you need helping with. So we hit the ground running. All right. So that's the whole pack. It includes all you need to profitable trade with VWAP. And since I really wanted to offer you something special, you can now get it the whole pack for only 3.97, which is if you do the math, over a 50% discount. Uh you can get it on my website, trader.com. And uh you can get this in the next 8 days, which means uh until the 21st of June. Now, if you are not sure and if you would like to read some reviews on my service, you can visit Trust Pilot or Forex Peace Army website. Just go there, search for Traderdale, and on those sites, there are hundreds of unbiased reviews and ratings from our members. So, check them out, see what they have to say. I'm really proud and happy that my service has the highest five-star rating on both sides. And if you guys think of any questions later or if I skip your questions here because there are so many here in the chat, uh then this is my email address. Send your questions there. I'll answer all of them and I'll be happy to help you with anything you need helping with. All right, and if you guys prefer a chat, there's also chat on my website. All right, so let's wrap it up. Thanks for coming and I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time in some next webinar, some next video or in our members area. So until then, happy trading.
