Fair Value Gaps: What Works and What Doesn’t
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsJ6Eymf_5Q

Fair value gaps are one of the most popular trading concepts right now, but the truth is most traders don't really know how to use them properly. In this video, I'll show you what actually works and what it doesn't. What makes a good fair value gap and what makes a bad one. And I'll show you how to build a solid trading strategy around this. So, let me kick this off with telling you what the fair value gap represents. When you look at the chart and there is a fair value gap, it says that one side of the market is more aggressive than the other one. In this case, you can see a downtrend and in this downtrend, there are two fair value gaps. This one highlighted in red and this one also highlighted in red. Two fair value gaps telling us that sellers are more aggressive here pushing the price downwards and creating imbalance. Okay? Those are bearish fair value gaps. In this screen, you can see a bullish fair value gap. It represents buyers, aggressive buyers pushing price upwards. Okay? This is the fair value gap highlighted in green and it shows the aggressive buyers creating imbalance as they are pushing the price higher and higher. So, this is what the fair value gap stands for. Okay? Aggression of one side of the market. Now, technically, fair value gap is made out of three candles. And here, you can see a bullish fair value gap and here is a bearish fair value gap. Let's first take a look at the bullish fair value gap, okay? Consists of three candles. One, two, three. And in order to have a fair value gap, the high of the first candle should not overlap with the low of the third candle. Okay? If those don't overlap, then you have a fair value gap. Okay? Now, let's take a look at the bearish fair value gap. We have candles one, two, three. And the low of the first candle and the high of the third candle should not overlap. If they don't overlap, they form a fair value gap. Okay? This whole highlighted area is the fair value gap. It doesn't really matter if the first candle or the third candle are bullish or bearish. Important thing is that gap between the low and the high. Okay? Now, many people trade the fair value gaps differently. Let me show you how I trade them and what I consider strong levels in each fair value gap. Okay? So, if you look at the bullish fair value gap, then the strongest level and the level that I trade from is here, this level. This is the beginning of the fair value gap and the way I trade this is I wait for the pullback and when the price hits this level, this is the high of the first candle, okay? When the price hits this level, I go long from there. So, this is the strong level in the bullish fair value gap. Now, let's take a look at the bearish fair value gap. In here, the beginning of the bearish fair value gap is this level. Okay? It is the low of the first candle and this is a resistance. When the price makes pullback to it, it's short from there, like this. Okay? For me, those are the strongest levels in every fair value gap. Now, if you look at any chart, you'll see many fair value gaps. Some of them are strong, they are good to trade from and some are not. And this is where many people fail because they just trade all fair value gaps blindly. So, what makes a good fair value gap? Three things. Size of the fair value gap, if the fair value gaps are stacked and confluences. Now, let me talk more in detail about those three things, okay? So, let's first talk about the size of the fair value gap. General rule is the bigger the better. So, if you take a look at this picture here, you can see that there is a massive candle, this candle forming a big fair value gap highlighted in green. This whole area is a fair value gap. Okay? So, this really tells you that one side of the market was way more aggressive than the other. In this case, the buyers were more aggressive pushing the price up. Okay? If you compare it, for example, with this fair value gap in here, you can see that this one is way stronger and gives you way clearer information about the market. Okay? Now, many people ask me whether if the fair value gap is formed during a macro news, whether it's still good to trade or no. My answer is yes. If it's formed during macro news, there is no problem at all with that. I personally really like trading fair value gaps which are formed during macro news event. Okay? So, this was the size of the fair value gap. The bigger the better. Now, the second thing that make good fair value gap is if they are stacked. Now, let's take a look at those pictures and let's first take a look at this one, okay? There are two fair value gaps, this one and this one. They are stacked at top of each other, okay? They are very close. So, if it is like this, then I consider the fair value gap as one big fair value gap, like this. One big fair value gap starting in here. Okay? So, the way to trade this is wait for the pullback and go long from here. In this short trade scenario, there also stacked fair value gaps, this one and this one. Again, they are next to each other. So, the way to look at it is as if this was one big fair value gap, okay? And the way to trade this is the beginning of the first fair value gap. So, this is the resistance and what you do is just wait for the pullback until the price hits that resistance and go short from there. Okay? So, those are the stacked fair value gaps. Now, the last thing that make the good fair value gap are confluences. I personally like to trade with volume profile and look for confluences where I have fair value gap and significant volume zone, like in those two pictures here. So, let's first take a look at the one on the left. In here, you can see a big fair value gap in here starting at this level and at the same time, you can see that around this zone, there was this significant volume cluster. Okay? The volume cluster represents a place where big players were active and if it is also a beginning of a fair value gap, it makes the beginning of the fair value gap and the support it represents way stronger. Okay? So, the way to trade this is wait for the price to reach the beginning of the fair value gap and go long from there. This is a long trade scenario. Now, let's take a look at the next one, shall we? We have a fair value gap in here. This whole area is a fair value gap beginning in here because this is a short trade scenario. At the same time, we have this volume cluster here, which again is telling us that big players were active here and as in the previous example, this adds strength to that fair value gap. Okay? So, the way to trade this is wait for the pullback and go short from there. Now, at this point, you are probably wondering where do I get the fair value gap indicator to show me where the fair value gaps actually are in the chart. Now, the good news is that internet is full of those indicators and most of them are free. The bad news is, as usual with free stuff, you need to be okay with um buggy indicators, okay? So, some of them are buggy, but I found one which is rather good one. It's on TradingView. Let me show you. Okay, so this is the TradingView platform and if you click indicators in here and type FVG, like fair value gap, then the first one, this one, it's rather okay. I already have it on my chart here. Sometimes it doesn't print fair value gap, but usually it works fine. Let me show you the setting. So, let's click here and this is the setting that I use. Most of it is default, but one thing is important which I like to point out and it is those two things. You want to have both those on. Uh you want to delete boxes after fill. That means that when the fair value gap, like this one, gets filled completely, then it will no longer show on the chart. The second thing is extend boxes. That means that the boxes will extend to the right until tested. Okay? So, those are the two important settings here. The rest is default. Now, at this point, what I like to show you is couple of examples how I use the fair value gaps with the volume profile. So, what we have here is a chart of the Australian dollar US dollar. It is a 30-minute time frame. It's my favorite time frame for intraday trading. You can use any other time frame, any other trading instrument, but this is what I prefer, okay? 30-minute time frame and I mostly trade currencies and a couple of indices. So, what I have here are a couple of fair value gaps that I like to comment on. Let's start with the one on the left, this one, the big one. Um as you can see, it begins in here. So, this level represents a support. It also nicely aligns with this volume cluster right here. So, it is a nice combo of the fair value gap and also the volume cluster here and represents a support. So, when the price hits this support in here, it means you go long from there. Now, the next fair value gap, oh, there's also this one, but this is rather small. It's not really significant. I wouldn't really trade this one, but the next one is this one and this one. As you can see, those fair value gaps are next to each other. They are stacked. That means that I look at it as if this was one big fair value gap. And the way to trade this, because this is a bullish scenario, is the beginning of that fair value gap. okay? So, this is the place to go long from. As you can see, we also have a confluence with the volume profile as it shows a nice heavy volume zone here at the beginning of our fair value gap. So, the way to trade this is wait for the pullback when the price hits this level long from there, okay? Next one, this is also stacked fair value gaps in here and in here. Again, you want to look at it as if this was one big fair value gap and you trade from the beginning of it, which means this is your long level, okay? Again, it nicely aligns with heavy volume zone, this one, okay? And the volume zone adds strength to it. So, you wait for the pullback when the price hits this level, which is the beginning of the fair value gap, then it is long from here. Now, the next one is also stacked, but this is a bearish scenario. We have this fair value gap and this fair value gap. Again, you look at it as if this was one big fair value gap and this fair value gap begins in here. That means that when the price makes pullback to it, it is short from there. And again, we have a nice volume cluster here adding strength to our level. Now, let's take a look at the last one. The last one is this fair value gap. It is a bearish fair value gap and it begins in here. We also have a heavy volume zone, which adds strength to that fair value gap and the way to trade this is wait for the pullback when the price reaches this level, go short from there. Now, in this case, the price did not quite reach the beginning of the fair value gap, which was in here. Price only made it here, which makes this a missed trade. And when this happens, you want to discard the level and you will not trade it again, okay? Because the reaction was there. Let me move the chart a little bit. See, this was the reaction. So, the level is spent. You should not trade this again. All right, guys. So, that's about it. I hope you liked the video. Give it a try. This is really a powerful strategy, so give it a try. See how it goes for you. If you want to learn more about volume profile trading and about the setups and strategy that I trade with every day, then you want to visit my website. It is at traderdale.com. And if you click this button, then you can browse my trading courses and my custom-made trading tools. And you can enroll and trade alongside me every day, okay? So, thanks again for watching the video and I'll see you next time. Until then, happy trading.
