🚨Trap or Trading Opportunity? How to Use Volume Profile to Reveal the Truth!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkeOAlFDISc

Hello everyone, it's Dale here. In this video, I'm going to talk about rejections. I'm going to tell you how to tell the difference between a good trading opportunity and a trap. And I'm going to give you a checklist which will help you to tell the difference between a good-looking trade and a bad one. Now, I'll also show you how I trade rejections. I'll show you exactly step by step my strategy so you can apply that to your trading as well. Now let's kick this off by looking at this chart. And what I have for you is a little question. I want you to look at this chart and I want you to tell me what is the first thing that you notice when you look at this chart. I hope that most of you said that it is this part of the chart. this strong rejection of lower prices. So this is what I call a rejection. It is when the price goes one way very aggressively and then turns and goes the other way also very aggressively. This is a rejection and this is what this video is going to be all about. And rejections are very very special because many traders place their trading decisions around them. And it doesn't really matter what strategy they use because when something like this happens, everybody who is trading this chart sees that and plans their trading around this because this is clearly the most important place on that chart. Right? So no matter which strategy you trade, when you see this, you simply can't ignore it. That's the beauty of the rejections. Now, many traders use those as support and resistance zones, which is completely fine. The only problem is that they don't always work as strong support and resistance zones. And this is actually what I want to focus on in this video. I want to teach you how to tell whether this rejection will work as a strong support or resistance zone or if it's likely a trap that will eventually not work as a strong support and a lot of people will burn uh their money there. So, as I was saying, I have a little checklist and the goal of this checklist is to tell whether this is a good trading opportunity or no. In other words, is this a good support or resistance zone or if this is a trap? So, let's now take a look at the first point from that checklist. And the first point is you want to look at the market structure and you want to see that the strong rejection was formed when the market was rotating. In other words, if you look at the volume profile, if you use volume profile, then the volume profile should be D-shaped like capital letter D. If it's D-shaped, then the market is in a rotation. Obviously, you don't need volume profile. You can just look at the chart like this. And if it's rotating, you can tell just by you know naked eye. But the point is if the market is rotating then chance of those strong rejections working as support or resistance zones is way higher and the reason is that when the market is rotating the price tends to return uh to that channel. So let's say that this is the center of that channel. This is the higher border. This is the low border of that channel and the price simply makes those rejections and goes back towards the center of the channel. That's why you want to prioritize those rejections that are inside a channel or in other words in a rotation like this. All right. So the first point from the checklist is that the market should be in a rotation as the chances of the rejections working as support or resistance zones in this case this would be a resistance is simply higher because the price tends to go back towards the center of that rotation. Right? So market structure should be a rotation. And again if you use volume profile then it's super simple. It should be shaped as the capital letter D. Okay. So that's the first point. Second point is the strength of the rejection. What I've prepared here are two examples. A good one and a bad one. This is a good rejection. This is a bad rejection. Now let me show you the difference. A good rejection or a strong rejection looks like this. You can clearly see that point where the price turned. This is the high. This is clear high. The price turned and suddenly went into the self. It's sharp. If you look at it, the rejection is sharp. It looks like this. Boom. Boom. Now if you look at the second example at this rejection then this high of the rejection is weak right there's not really a clear point like in here where the price turned because market tested like four times but never really made a strong high like boom boom. So this is a weak high, weak high and this is a strong high. Now a good rejection has a strong high because the good rejection should tell us that there is that aggressivity, right? Aggressivity in this case of sellers who jumped in and started to sell aggressively, right? This is aggressive selling. But right here, it looks like the sellers weren't really sure. there wasn't that strength, that aggression, right? So the second point from that checklist is that the rejection needs to be strong. It should look like this, not like this. Okay, we need to see aggression. That's what the rejections are all about, right? So that's the second point. Now the third point from that checklist is volume distribution. You want to look into that rejection and ideally with flexible volume profile which will allow you to look specifically into that rejection zone like I did in here. And you want to look at how the volumes are distributed. And this is quite important because sometimes if the volumes are not well distributed it could tell you that this is actually not a strong rejection but a trap. So let me show you. This is a good scenario how it should look like, right? So we have a rejection and within that rejection you want to see a strong volume cluster, heavy volume zone easily visible. It should be super clear where the buyers started to jump in and where they placed most of their volumes before pushing the price upwards. Right? So you need clear volume cluster like this one. Behind that there should be low volume zone like this one. And this is also very important. It's not just about the heavy volume zone but also about the weak volumes which are behind that. The reason is that the weak volume zone is telling you that nobody was really willing to trade here in this area. Right? That's why the price turned and went upwards. Right? Nobody was willing to trade here. The buyers were buying here. That's why we see the heavy volumes there. And from there, they pushed the price upwards. But nobody was willing to trade here. Almost nobody. Now let's compare. Let's compare with this example. Now in here, we have this rejection. And if you look at the volume distribution, you can see that the heaviest volumes in that rejection were actually very very close to the low of the rejection. And this is what I call a trap because it tells us that when that rejection happened, there were many people willing to trade in here, right at the bottom of that rejection. We don't want that. We don't want people to be willing to trade in here. The reason is that if you trade those rejections, let's say that the market makes a pullback and you want to use this rejection as a support and go long from there like this. What's likely to happen is that the market will want to test this heavy volume zone. Market likes to do that. It's always in search for liquidity, right? So it's very likely that the price will do this test below this heavy volume zone to see if there's anybody willing to trade there. They do that because in the past there were traders willing to trade here. Right? So they go and test that zone to see if anybody is willing to trade here which is a problem. If you went long from this place then yeah this would be a losing trade right? if the price continue to go downwards against your long. So that's why I call this a trap. And if you see this then it's definitely not a trade which you want to take. Right? So the volumes should always look like this. close to the rejection point, there needs to be that heavy volume zone, but behind that, there still needs to be that low volume zone marking a place where nobody was really willing to trade, right? If you compare it to the bad volume distribution, then in here the volumes are heaviest very close to the low, which is not good. That's a trap. Okay, so that's the volume distribution. And one last thing here, one last point from that checklist is whether there's a fair value gap in that rejection. Now fair value gap that's concept from smart money trading. Let me explain this really briefly. It's basically formation of three candles. Let me draw a bearish fair value gap real quick. All right. So this is our first candle, second candle, third candle. This is a bearish formation and a bearish fair value gap is if you look at the low of the first candle, this one and the high of the third candle right here. If they don't overlap, then it's called the fair value gap. And it is this whole zone. This is fair value gap beginning in here, ending in here. Right? This is bearish fair value gap. For bullish it would be the same just reversed. Right? In this case we have a bearish rejection. So we are going to focus on the bearish fair value gaps. So if you look here in this example then you want to look into that rejection and you want to look for the fair value gap there. You want to see a fair value gap there. So low of the first candle, high of the third candle, right? So this being the first one, it doesn't matter if it's bearish or bullish, by the way. So this is the first one. This is the second one. And this is the third one. This one. This is the third one. And this whole area, that's the fair value gap. The reason I'm talking about this is that fair value gap shows aggression, right? In this case, aggression of sellers. And a good rejection should have a fair value gap because as I was saying, you need to see that aggression, right? And one of the ways how to spot the aggression is through the fair value gap. Now take a look at this example. Is there a fair value gap within this rejection? And I mean you should look at the fair value gap in the selling area of that rejection in this part. Right? So, is there a fair value gap in this area of the rejection? There's not. There's not a fair value gap, right? So, there's not that sign of aggression here, which is not good. We want to see aggression. So, if a rejection doesn't include a fair value gap, then it's not ideal rejection, right? So that's the point number four for my little checklist saying that the good rejection should have a fair value gap like this one. Now here is a little recap of that checklist. Here are all the four points. The first point is that market should be rotating right first point on the checklist. Second point rejection needs to be strong. Third point, the volumes need to be distributed well. And the fourth point, there needs to be a fair value gap. If all those points check out, then the rejection is most likely going to work. It's most likely going to be a strong resistance or support zone. Right now, all those conditions doesn't need to be met because in trading nothing is ideal obviously. So, at least for me, it's fine if only three conditions from this little list are met. If three conditions are met, then I still trade the rejection. I still consider it a strong support or resistance zone, right? Obviously, if it's all four, then even better. But if three conditions are met, it is still good to trade. All right. Now, let's put this into action and let me show you how I traded this. Uh I'll give you two examples of two trades in here. I have that uh checklist for you. So we can you know check it as we go. So the first thing the most important thing to do is identify a good rejection using this checklist. So let's check out this one. This rejection right here. Is the market rotating? Yes, it appears to be rotating. Even though I don't have the volume profile printed here, you can see that the market is going up and down. up and down. It's rotating, right? So, yeah, this checks out. Is the rejection strong? Look at the high. Is it strong or no? There's this clear high, right? High of this candle. So, yeah, it is a strong rejection. So, that's good as well. Now, let's check out the volumes. Are the volumes distributed? Well, we have this heavy volume zone right here. Very good looking. and above that low volume zone. All good so far. Market is rotating. Rejection is strong. Volumes are distributed. Well, now is there a fair value gap? There is right here. Fair value gap showing us the aggression of sellers. So all this checks out, right? We have a strong rejection. Now the only thing we need to do is trade this. So, how do I trade it? After I spotted a good-looking rejection, I want to see a pullback back into the zone where the heavy volumes were formed before. This is a resistance for me. The resistance is not at the top of the rejection. It is the heavy volume zone. That's the most important zone because the heaviest volumes in that rejection were formed there. Right? So, that's the resistance I want to trade. Resistance is not just a level. It's always a zone. The beginning is usually at the beginning of that heavy volume cluster. And ideally, if it's also a beginning of the fair value gap and you would be surprised, but very often it is, it aligns the beginning of the heavy volume zone and the start of the fair value gap. So in this case this would be the short level and if the price hits that level then it is short from there. So again you need to see a rejection. You wait for pullback to the heavy volume zone and from the beginning of the heavy volume zone you go short. All right. This is how I trade rejections. Let's take a look at another example in here. This is a bullish scenario. We have this rejection and again the first thing is we need to check whether this is actually a good rejection or if it is a trap. All right. So let's go through the checklist again. First thing is the market rotating. Look at this. Up and down, up and down, up and down. Yes, the market is rotating. Is the rejection strong? Yeah, this is beautiful low. This is a strong low. Let me delete that so you can see it better. Right. Strong low. So all good so far. Other volumes distributed well. We have clear volume cluster in here. Below that low volume zone. So yeah, volumes are distributed. Well, is there a fair value gap? Well, in this case, I would prefer the fair value gap to be somewhere in here, right above this heavy volume zone. We do have fair value gap, but it is a little bit higher. Let me mark that for you. This bullish fair value gap beginning in here. But I prefer if it actually was beginning in here at the beginning of the volume cluster. In this case it's not so clearcut but if we go through the checklist then market is rotating rejection is strong volumes are distributed well but the fair value gap is above the place where I would like to trade. It's not above the heavy volume zone. So in this case I would look at it like this because the fair value gap is there but it's a bit higher right. So if I wanted to be strict, the checklist would look like this. But still three conditions are met, which means this is a still good trade to take, right? So how to trade this? Mark the beginning of the heavy volume zone and you can use a limit order there. Just place the limit order, wait for the pullback, and when the price hits that level, hits your limit order, then go long from there. Now, I haven't mentioned stop- loss and take profit yet. And in this case, it's very, very simple. Let's start with a stop-loss, which is at least for me always at the bottom of the rejection. Right here, this is the stop-loss because the price really shouldn't go past that point. If it does, then the low is breached and there's no telling where the price could go from there. Right? So, this is the stop- loss. And regarding the takerit, you want to trade with at least riskreward ratio one or better, which means that in this case, the takerit would be somewhere in here. But in my trading, I strive to have a bigger risk ratio than one. So in the long run I try to have around 1.5 which in this case would be somewhere in here. But uh what I do is I look at volume distribution and decide on the takeprofit placement based on the volumes. But you know in this video I just wanted to focus on the rejection. So if you guys want to learn more about the exact way how I place my takeprofits, you might for example read my volume profile book or search for other videos on YouTube where I talk specifically about take profit placement. But simply put the rule of thumb is risk reward ratio needs to be at least one. All right. So yeah, this is how I go about this. If you guys are interested in learning more about volume profile trading or orderflow trading or VWAP trading, then head over to my website. It is at traderdale.com. And if you click this button, trading course and tools, then it will take you straight to a page where you can browse my trading education and customade indicators. There's the volume profile pack, the orderflow pack, the VWAP pack, the smart money pack. You can get them separately in here. By the way, there are videos which you can watch that'll show you everything that's included in their specs in detail. And if you guys want all of them together in a discounted bundle, then scroll down a bit and you can get them in here. All right. Now, if you guys would prefer to trade with me and other properform traders every day in a live trading room, then click this button. FTA stands for funded trader academy. And on this page, you can watch this video where I'll show you everything that's included in the Funy Trader Academy. And if you find that interesting and if you like to learn more, then book a call and we'll walk you through this course in this one-on-one call and then you can decide whether or not this is right for you. All right, so that's about that. I hope you enjoyed the video. I hope you found it useful and I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time. Until then, happy trading.
