Stop Making These 6 Order Flow Mistakes (Most Traders Do This)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WY8d3JcYA70

Hey everyone, in this video I'll show you six most common order flow mistakes that traders make. And chances are you are doing at least one of them yourself. But the good news is that they are easy to fix once you know what to look for. So, let's get to it. The common mistake number one is over analyzing every footprint. Because so many people just focus on every single number they see on the chart, which is clearly insane. What you should focus instead are the big things, which is for example heavy volume zones, significant volume clusters like this one, or like this one. Those are the things which should stand out, you know, when you look at the order flow chart. Or for example, this one. You should take a look at what the delta is doing. You should look at the imbalances here, or here, or here. Those are trapped traders here. So, keep an eye on those as well. Stacked imbalances like those because they represent strong support and resistance zones like in here. As you can see, the price made a beautiful reaction to that. So, keep an eye on those important things, the big things, not every single number, right? So, don't over analyze the order flow. It's a mistake that so many traders do, but don't do that. What comes hand in hand with that is mistake number two, ignoring the big picture. And that's why I think it's very important to have a chart like this on one of your screens, where you see the big picture, where you have weekly volume profile, where you have, let's say, 30-minute time frame, and you can also have a weekly view up or something similar which is showing you the bigger picture, right? You need to see what's going on from the bigger perspective before you dive in into the details of order flow. You can also use something like this. This is also 30-minute chart, but in this case it is a footprint chart, but but it still shows you the big picture because there's the volume profile, and also you are seeing that there are those heavy volume clusters that are very important in your decision-making. So, this also give you sort of a bigger picture, right? So, have those on your screens. It will definitely help to see what the market is doing, what it's doing, whether it's rotating or trending, where are the big levels, where are the significant volume zones, stuff like that, right? And you need to see that before diving in into details of order flow trading. Now, common mistake number three is misunderstanding the bid and ask. We talked about that couple of times today. I just wanted to make sure to mention it again because this is really really important. So, just to repeat it once again, on bid you can have aggressive sellers with market sell orders as well as passive buyers with limit buy orders. On ask, there could be either aggressive buyers with market buy orders or passive sellers with limit sell orders, right? Keep that in mind. Now, another mistake is that when people think that order flow is not just for intraday, but also for swing trading. It's not. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; People keep asking me that if they can use order flow for swing trading. No. This tool is good for intraday trading or for scalping, but for swing trading, there are other tools like volume profile, but you know, if you want to trade with order flow, you can use for example the tick charts or 1-minute through 30-minute time frame. That's like the maximum, right? If you want to use higher time frames like, let's say, hourly, 4-hour, daily time frames, then the order flow is not tool for that. Tool for that is something which shows the bigger picture, right? That's the volume profile. Now, another common mistake is that people think that if they trade more markets with order flow, they'll have more winners. But truth is, they probably won't. Markets differ in so many things. They differ in average volatility, typical volume, time of activity when most traders are active there, or things that they react to, you know, different setups, different kind of news. So, every market is different. You can't apply the same thing on every market. Yeah, you can apply the same principle, but for example, the volumes will be completely different. Volatility will be completely different. So, that's why I highly recommend focusing on one or two markets. Take a look at those two tables here. The first table shows average daily volatility. For example, the crude oil, average daily volatility is 7%. If you look at the euro futures right here at the bottom, then the average daily volatility is only half a percent. You can't really trade the same way those two instruments. You can't. You need to become professional on trading just one or two, right? Just focus on couple of them because they are clearly very very different. Volatility is different, also the average daily volume. So, if on the crude oil, typical daily volume is over 1 million contracts, whether, for example, on the euro futures, it's only 150,000 contracts. The charts will look completely different. The volumes will look completely different. If, for example, you wait for uh confirmation by absorption, then the absorption will look completely different on crude oil than on the euro futures. The volumes will be completely different, right? So, you need at least roughly to know what typical volumes are on that instrument you're trading, right? So, that's why I'm saying that you should specialize on one or two markets. And one very very interesting fact here is this one. There was a survey that one of the top prop firms made, and it said that top six traders were taking 43% of total payouts trade only one market. This is insane, isn't it? I'll read it again. Top 6% traders. Top traders, the best traders, those are taking 43% of all the payouts. Just couple of traders, just 6% of traders. And those guys, those top traders are trading just one market. So, learn from them, right? Don't try and take many trades with the goal of multiplying your winners. Chances are that it probably will end up the other way, and you won't be as successful as you planned. So, stick to one or two markets. That's my best advice regarding this I can give you. Now, another thing that people keep asking me about is questions about level two data. For some reason, people still think that they need a level two data if they want to trade order flow. The difference between level one data and level two data is that level one data shows executed trades. And level two data shows market depth, or in other words, pending orders. So, order flow is showing you executed trades. Trades that somebody actually executed, that actually went to the exchange, and that they were actual trades, right? Somebody was trading with their intent to buy or sell, and they executed their that trade. That's what level one data shows. That's what order flow shows. Level two data is pending orders. But pending orders are orders which are very very often not executed. And here you can see DOM, depth of market, and those are the pending orders. And for example, if an algorithm wants to manipulate the price to go up, what it does, it places pending orders here in order to lure the price to go up. But if the price starts to rise, and it's getting close to that pending order, they withdraw their pending order, right? So, it's not actual intent of trading there, and that's the big difference because order flow shows actual trades. The DOM or the market depth or the pending order are not actual trades, right? So, you don't need level two data, just level one. All right, guys. So, that's that. I hope you liked the video, and if you would like to join my order flow course, then you want to head over to my website, which is traderday.com. Click this button which says trading course and tools, and it will take you to this page where you can scroll down a bit, and in here you can browse my trading courses. This one is focused solely on order flow trading. You'll get complete A-to-Z video course on order flow as well as my custom-made order flow indicators, and more. All right. So, thanks for watching the video, and see you next time. Until then, happy trading.
