Order Flow Setup: How to Spot Big Orders Before the Market Moves
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8QUcKAUXmEc

Order flow is fantastic tool that shows all trades executed in the market, but it can also be a bit overwhelming because as I said, it shows all orders executed in the market. But it doesn't have to be overwhelming. In this video, I'll show you how you can filter out all the noise that being the small orders, the retail traders, and focus only on the big thing, which is the big players, institutions, simply the guys that move and manipulate the market. So, let me show you how to do this and how to trade this. Now, another order flow setup that I like to show you is big orders or confirmation by big orders. And here is how it goes. Take a look at this picture. And this is the chart, the trades filter chart, where it only shows the big single orders, right? So, it filters out all the noise, only shows the big orders, and imagine that for example in here, we have a support zone. Price goes towards that support zone, and as it reaches it, massive order appears in here. And this is one single order, so it's not iceberg order, not couple of separate smaller orders. This is one huge order, 700 contracts at our support. Somebody big jumped in right now at this support. This is clear signal that this is important level, and signal for you to go long. In this case, when dealing with uh those big orders, it's not that important whether it appears on bid or ask, but you know, it's better if for long trade entry, it actually shows here at bid because if it's at bid, then you can tell for sure that this is a huge buy limit order, right? But essentially, you just want to see a huge volume appear around support zone, right? On this trades filter chart. Then it's confirmation for you to enter the trade. Let me give you another example. Imagine we have a resistance in here. Price hits that resistance zone, and in that resistance zone, 101 contracts show up on the trades filter. Again, this is one trade, one single trade. Somebody just entered over 100 contracts here at that resistance level. If this at ask, so it's very likely that this is a huge limit order, huge sell limit order, right? And confirmation for you to hit short. So, this is confirmation by the big orders. Again, you need the trades filter. My software does it. With my software, you can easily filter out all the noise and track only the big orders. I'm pretty sure that other software has it as well, but I can't really tell which one has it and which one doesn't. So, TradingView probably doesn't have it. Anyways, here's another example of the confirmation by the big order. And imagine that we have a resistance in here, and as the price reaches that resistance, we have one order of 600 contracts, another order of 400 contracts, both on ask. Very, very likely is that somebody big was waiting here with our sell limit order, and when the price reached that resistance, those limit orders got filled, and they went short. And so should you. All right? So, that's the confirmation. By the way, funny thing which I noticed here is that we also have 400 contracts in here, and 600 contracts in here. It's likely that it's the same trader quitting his trades here. Right? So, in this case, it wouldn't be bad idea to actually do the same. Sell in here, and then quit position around here. All right? Trade with the big guys. That's the whole logic of my trading approach. Just follow the big guys. They move and manipulate the market. We are just, you know, small fish. We can't really do anything, but if we follow the big guys, then that's how we can make our money. So, I hope you guys liked the video. I hope you learned something new. If you're interested in getting your hands on my custom-made order flow software and also on that trade filter software, then you want to go to my website, which is traderdale.com, and click this button, trading course and tools. It'll bring you to this page, and in here, there is the order flow pack, which includes my custom-made software as well as complete A-to-Z order flow training. So, thanks for watching the video, and see you next time.
