How to Set Up Volume Footprints in TradingView (99% Traders Mess This Up)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UHaBExDazss

Hey everyone, it's Dale here. In this video, I want to show you how to properly set up volume footprints in Trading View. So, you don't have to use the terrible default layout that looks like this. It is messy, hard to read, and not good if you want to trade footprints seriously. Instead, I'll show you a clean, professional setup that looks like this, where the key information is clear, easy to read, and easy to trade from. And it's not just about colors. It's also about showing the right data the right way. So let's get to it. First, what you need to do is you need to have a trading plan so you can access the volume footprints in Trading View. So what you need is their plan which is the premium one which costs around €50 per month. Once you have that, uh, trading view will allow you to get the volume footprints on your chart as you can see in here. So, let me now go to trading view. So, here is the trading view platform. Now, we have the standard candles, but we'll quickly change that. So, you click this button here and click the volume footprint. It will change into this. Well, not exactly this because this is my layout. The default layout looks a bit different, but let me show you how you can set it up. So, it looks like this. So, right click the chart and go to settings. Once in the settings, you can adjust the candles and how they look in here. And, you know, those settings are not really that important. there just change how the colors and uh the canvas look. So I would just keep it as it is now and let's move on to the more important settings which is setting of the volume footprint. First important thing is the row size. You want to have that at manual because if you use the auto setting then what it will do is it will adjust its row size according to volatility which will mean that every time the footprint will look bit different and it's not good at all. So you want to keep that at manual and the way I have it is I have two ticks per like here. This is how I have it for currency futures. If you're going to trade, for example, the indices, then you might want to change this. Uh, but for currency futures, I have it at two. Now, the next setting is this display setting, and I have it as profile. If you change it to cluster, then it looks like this. This is the default setting that the trading view uses. But the problem I have with that is that it doesn't allow me to see where heavy volumes were traded. Right? So instead I prefer the profile which will immediately show me where heavy volumes are traded for example here and where low volumes are traded for example in here. Right? So that's why I prefer having it like this. It also very nicely shows where sellers were more aggressive, where buyers were more aggressive, and you can tell at first glance. So that's why I prefer having it like this. Now, regarding the type of the footprint, I currently have it at as buy and sell, which shouldn't really say buy and sell. It should say bid and ask. But you know trading view platform is simplified platform for retail traders. That's why they simply say buy and sell. What they want to say with this is that this part of the footprint the right side of the footprint is buyers the left side of the footprint is sellers. This is not 100% correct but if you prefer simplicity then this is you know the way how to say it. Anyways uh this is how I have it buy and sell. What you can also do is set it to total. It looks like this looks like small volume profiles. And this is essentially sum of the buy and sell volumes. Okay. Um the rest of the settings, the delta settings, not too useful. I think it shows the difference between buyers and sellers. Not too useful in my opinion. And also the ladder, it shows if you look for example into this footprint, it shows who was stronger, whether sellers or buyers. Right? The stronger side is always colored, right? That's why it's called ladder. And you know, I wouldn't really use this setting. I would just stick to the standard buy and sell or bid and ask or to the total volume. So, let's stick with that. And the next thing, some colors. You can copy the ones that I have. Those are not default colors. So, you can just copy what I have here. Then the value area, I have that off. I don't really know why they even have that option here. Probably because this was created by coders and not traders. Value area, if you turn that on, it shows value area in each footprint. But you know, value area is good for volume profile trading, not for orderflow trading in my opinion. That's why I have that off. Now, the next thing is the summary info. Um the summary info is summary below each footprint. Let me just turn off the value area here. And it is here. This is the summary info of each footprint. In here, it shows what the delta in this particular footprint was. In this case, the delta was 200 contracts. That means that uh there were more buyers than sellers, right? because the delta is positive. If you look for example into this footprint, then the delta is negative. That means sellers were dominating in this footprint, right? Because the delta is negative. So that's uh what the delta shows and the total that's the total volume traded in this whole footprint. Both those pieces of information are quite useful. So u that's why I recommend having that on the chart. You can either have it below each footprint like this or if you opt in for this option for a table, then it will show that information at the bottom of your screen. Right? So, it's up to you how you prefer it. If you have it at the bottom of your screen, you can choose from many different options what to actually show in this table. But you know most of this stuff you won't really use this. You will most of the time you'll just want to see the delta and the total volume. The rest is just you know so there is more numbers and you can feel like you are flying a spaceship or something. So it's not useful. It's not useful. Just stick to the delta and volume and you'll be fine. I prefer to having that information below each footprint like this. Now coming up next is imbalance. Imbalance is if you compare for example this cell and this cell always diagonally always compare diagonally. If you compare those then imbalance is if one cell is one side if one side is bigger than the other one then it will get highlighted. If it's bigger 300 or more percent that it will get highlighted. For example, take a look at this footprint and it gets highlighted with this black thing here. Do you see that? This black thing. So if you look at this footprint then we are comparing this number and this number right always diagonally. If this number on the right side is bigger then there's buying imbalance and it gets high highlighted like this. Okay, 300% or more. You can change it. The default is 300 and I stick to the default in this case. I also stick to the 300. So that's the imbalance. Remember always uh the comparison is done diagonally like this. Okay, this is buying imbalance and for example here we have selling imbalances because in here sellers are dominant right compared to this number of volumes traded by buyers. Okay. Now stacked levels. Stacked levels is in other words stacked imbalance. And if you look for example here, there are a couple of buying imbalances here, right? One, two, three, four. If they're at top of each other like this, then it's called stacked imbalance. And if there are three or more stacked, then they'll get highlighted like this. Okay. Um, it's useful to have that on because those zones often work as support or resistance zones. So that's why you want to keep track of those. I have it at three. So it shows uh three or more imbalances stacked at top of each other. Now the next setting is the minimal volume and ignore zero setting. That's also setting for the imbalance and I have that off. Ignore zeros off. Minimal volume to zero because if you change that then it would ignore zeros and show only imbalances where there is no zero on the other side. But that doesn't really make any sense why you should ignore zeros. Like imbalance is an imbalance even if one side of the footprint is zero. So just keep it like this. You should be fine. And the last important thing here is adjust for contract changes. What this means is that if for example the price moves like this and then there's a change of contract and the price will start here and move like this. Then if you have this setting on, what it will do, it will adjust the old contract. It will move it like this. So it nicely continues to the new one and there's not that artificial gap. Okay. So that's why I have that on. All right. So that's about that. That's how you set up the footprint chart in Trading View. I hope you guys found this useful and if you done it, congratulations. The first step is behind you. Now the only thing left is learn how to trade with the orderflow. And if you want to learn it, then I have the perfect perfect thing for you. Just go to my website which is traderale.com. And if you click this button which says trading course and tools, then it will bring you to this page. You scroll down a bit and in here I have the Orflow pack which includes 12-hour course on how to trade with Orflow. Also my custommade Orflow software which I think is far superior to the Trading View software and also this is lifetime payment. So no recurring payments you pay once and the software is yours forever. So if you are interested in that, you can get that on my website. All right, so thanks for watching the video and I'll see you next time. Until then, happy trading.
