Order Flow Trapped Traders: How to Spot the Trap and Trade the Reversal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0h2Z3U0ZYLU

Orderflow sometimes shows strong buying or selling and it looks like the trend should continue. But what if it doesn't? That's where traders get trapped and it often leads to strong reversal. In this video, you'll learn how to spot it and how to trade that reversal move. Now, another concept that I'd like to show you is trapped traders. This is quite popular concept and it's funny that it's actually called trapped traders because those traders are not trapped but people keep calling them trapped traders. So let's stick with that terminology and let's talk about them as trapped traders as well. Here's what it means. Take a look at this chart. Price goes up and then at this footprint the orflow is giving you every signal that it should continue to go up. Right? We have heavy volumes here at the top of this footprint and those heavy volumes are at ask which means aggressive buyers jumping in in here at top of this footprint. Right? So this is screaming at you that the price should continue to go up, but for some reason it doesn't. It goes down. That's weird. It shouldn't do this, right? So if the price doesn't go up, well, it's likely that it will go down, right? There is not really any other option. So basically, this is telling you that buyers started to jump in here, but then they didn't really follow through. The big guys probably have different plans for the game. And if it's not up, then it's down, right? Those guys are called trapped traders. Like if they were trapped in their long positions. Obviously they are not. They can quit their long positions anytime but you know people call them trapped. Eventually they'll have to sell sort of fueling this sell off but you know the selloff is not just caused by those guys getting rid of their longs. It's not the main logic is that you got clear signal that the market should go up. It didn't went down and that's a confirmation for you to go short as well. Right now, here is another example of the trapped traders. Uh the price went slightly up and at this point we had a buying imbalance. This is basically screaming at you that the price needs to go up, right? Buying imbalance at top of this footprint. But funny thing, it doesn't. Price goes down. So if the price is not to go up, then it's likely to go down, right? Those guys are trapped traders. They got trapped in their longs. Price reversed, they'll eventually have to quit. And if the price did not follow through and did not go up, then you should go short because clearly the plan is not to go up but to go down. Now one last example of the trapped traders in here. You can see the price was dropping and this was screaming at you. Those selling imbalances are screaming at you that the price should go even lower. By the way, those heavy volumes don't need to be at the low of the footprint, but should be close, right? It should be really screaming at you that the market should go down, but if it doesn't in the next footprint, if it doesn't, then you should go long because those guys are trapped sellers, right? So, I hope you guys liked the video. If you want to get your hands on my Orflow trading education and also the indicators, then head over to my website. It is at traderdale.com. And if you click this button saying trading course and tools, then it will bring you to this page. And in here, you can get my orderflow pack. It includes a 12-hour course on trading the orderflow, my custommade orderflow software, and also my custommade volume profile software. So, thanks for watching the video. I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time. And until then, happy trading.
