ORDER FLOW: Failed Auction (Unfinished Business) Explained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EpmpBFenzPE

Hey everyone, it's Dale here. In this video, I want to show you a very powerful orflow concept called the failed auction. The failed auction can tell you if the current trend is likely going to continue or no. And also, it can tell you where the price is likely going to go next. So, let's take a look at it. concept I like to share with you is the failed auction or could also be called the unfinished business. My software draws the failed auction lines automatically like this red line, this red line and this red line. And what the failed auction is all about is that every footprint needs to have its high or low in a certain way. So if you look for example at this footprint then the high needs to look like this. There needs to be zero at bit and then some number on ask. This is how it should look like right? Also the low for example here the low should be some number here and then zero. The zero is important. It needs to be like this, right? Zero in here, zero in here, that's important. If it's not like that, if the low of a footprint looks for example like this, where this number should be zero, but it's not, then it's a failed auction, right? The market should have continued a little bit lower, but it didn't went up. Auction failed because markets are always in auction up and down, up and down. It's always one neverending auction, right? But this is a failed auction. The auction failed. And that's why my software draws a line here. And market likes to test those failed auctions because there are imperfections. It shouldn't be like that. So market likes to test them and create a successful auction. Right now I'm not saying that if the price is moving for example here, then you just go short from here because the price will want to test this. No. Unfortunately, it doesn't work like this. But it what does work is when you have a failed auction or cluster of failed auctions like in here we have three next to each other or very close to each other and if the price comes close then it's very likely that it will test that failed auction cluster and go below that. Right? So this is how you can use the fail auction theory because when the price is closed it likes to test that right. So let me give you a couple of examples. For example in here we have failed auction in here. This is also a failed auction. Right here this is also a failed auction. So we have a little cluster of failed auctions and the price comes close and tests that. Right? So let's say for example just you know for the sake of this example that you are short from this place and you are wondering whether you should quit the trade in here for some reason. But you see that right here there is a failed auction. Below that there's another failed auction. So, you may want to hold that trade a little longer, at least one pip below the last failed auction and take your profit in here, right? Because failed auction is likely to get tested, especially if the price comes close to it. It works sort of like a magnet. All right? As you can see, for example, in here and in here again, failed auctions got tested, right? Or another example, we have faction in here. In here also some historical which is not visible but we have those three lines rather close to each other and price went boom. Testing all three on this example. Again we have those three failed auctions and see what the market does. tests that boom, right? When it comes close, it's likely to continue and test the whole failed auction cluster or even here couple of failed auctions here from the past and what the market did was boom boom went past all of them. Funny thing is that it created a new one in here. But you know, market likes to test those failed options. So that's about that. I hope you guys liked it. If you want to learn my complete orflow strategy from A to Z as well as get your hands on my custommade orflow indicator, then head over to my website. It is at traderdale.com. And if you click trading course and tools, then it will take you to this page. And in here, you can check out the Orflow pack, which includes the complete Orflow strategy as well as my custom [music] indicators. you can get it in here. Or if you are interested in getting all the four packs that I offer, you can get it in one special combo bundle in here at the bottom of the page. So, thanks for watching and I'll see you next time. Until then, happy trading.
