The Most Powerful Order Flow Imbalance Setups - Full Training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1j9pYnJStWo

Hello everyone, it's Dale here. This video is going to be about Orflow imbalances. I'll show you a couple of cool tricks and setups how you can use the imbalances. I'll show you how to spot aggressive buyers and aggressive sellers entering the market. I'll show you how to spot strong support and resistance zones using oral imbalances and also a cool breakout [music] strategy using orifal imbalances. So, let's get to it. All right. So what you see here um those are two footprints. This one and this one. The left side of the footprint that's called bit. That's this side. The right side of the footprint is ask and that's this side. Now my software highlights the imbalances. It is green for buying imbalance, red for selling imbalance. When you see a buying imbalance, then it means aggressive buyers. When you see a selling imbalance, then it means aggressive sellers. Now, if you look at the footprint, then you always compare those two numbers. You compare the volumes diagonally, right? This is how you read a footprint properly. Now, this is important. If you compare this number and this number, let me highlight that. This one and this one. The reason the 17 those 17 contracts are highlighted is because 17 is four times or more bigger than zero. Right? You compare those two numbers. And if this one is four times or more bigger, then it is an imbalance. It shows aggressivity. In this case, aggressive buyers. If you look at the other footprint again, you compare diagonally, right? Then the reason those 18 contracts are highlighted is because 18 is four times or more bigger than zero. In here, 25 compared to one, it's also four times or more bigger. And uh 15 is also four times or more bigger than two right that's why this is highlighted that's why those are imbalances and imbalances are showing us aggressivity right so on those levels sellers were way more aggressive than buyers if you look at the first footprint then at this level buyers were way more aggressive ressive than sellers. Right? This is what imbalances are telling us. Now, let me tell you what can cause an imbalance to occur. There could either be a big order being executed on one level or across more levels. So, this could be one big order being executed across multiple levels. So, that's one way how an imbalance can form. Another way could be more traders coming in to trade at the same time. Right? So imagine for example a strong macro news or another strong impulse and everybody just wants to enter a short trade. Right? So more traders are coming in they are selling and the footprint chart is showing us selling imbalances. Right? So it could be more traders coming in to trade at the same time. Also it could be stops getting triggered. Imagine that there are some buyers who went long from here but then the market starts to move downwards and those buyers are quitting their positions. And when you are long and you want to quit your trade, you do so with market sell. Right? So that's a stop getting triggered and if the price shoots past the stop-loss orders like this then it could seem like an aggressive selling even though could be just you know stop-loss orders getting triggered. But no matter the reason, no matter if it's this reason, this reason or this reason, what's important is that imbalance always means one side either buyers or sellers is currently dominating. Right? So again, if you look at this example, then at this level sellers are dominating. The same goes for this level. The same goes for this level. Those levels were levels where sellers were way more aggressive than buyers, right? They were dominating and that's important. That's a thing that you want to remember. Now before I start talking about setups and about how to trade the imbalances, let me just show you a couple of things so we are on the same page. All right. Uh when you want to trade imbalances and the setups which I'm going to show you, you need to use bit and ask data. That means ideally currency futures, indices, commodity futures or stocks. Simply put, everything that is uh that has a bit ask data. So unfortunately, if you want to trade forex, you can't do that. You can't trade forex because forex don't give you true bid and ask data. But if you want to trade currencies, then you can obviously trade the currency futures, right? But not forex. Um, regarding the time frame, this is for intraday trading, right? Intraday trading, scalp trading, real quick in and out trades. That's uh what this is all about. That's where the imbalances really shine. So, the preferred time frame that I use is a five minute time frame, but uh you can go for lower time frames like 1 minute or you can also use like different charts, let's say volutric charts or whatever. But the point being is that this is for intraday traders or scalp traders using fast time frames. Right now the platform where I do my analysis is Ninja Trader 8. You don't really need to pay for their full version or for their paid version. The free version that they offer is completely fine. I'm using the free version as well. So yeah, there's no costs as far as the platform is concerned. Um the software which I'm using is my own custommade Oraflow software but you know I'm not forcing you to use my software even though I think it's really really good. You can use whatever orflow software you like. The only thing that you really need this software to do is highlight imbalances but most of the good overflow software will do that for you. Right. So yeah that's for the software. Regarding the broker, since this is intraate trading and you need to be fast in and out, the broker needs to have tight spreads, quick execution, low commission. I've been personally trading with IC markets for years and uh yeah, I've been happy with them. So, I can only recommend this broker. All right, that's for that. Let's now talk about the setups, shall we? So uh the first setup is about aggressive buyers and aggressive sellers and we spot those guys using imbalances. And what you see on the screen now this is I think a perfect example. This is straight from yesterday. It was straight on the uh on the Euro futures. And the first thing I want you to look at is this chart. This is a price action chart with a volume profile. In here, there was a heavy volume zone followed by strong sell-off. So, this is a scenario that I like to trade. I wait for pullback and go short from the beginning of the heavy volume zone. So, I wanted to go short from this place like this. Now, if you look at this chart, this is a five minute footprint chart. And right here, this was the level. The price went upwards, hit that level. And what occurred here were those imbalances. And if you remember, I was saying that imbalances show aggressive buyers or aggressive sellers. If they are marked in red, that means that those are aggressive sellers. And those aggressive sellers showed up right after the short level got hit. Right? This is beautiful confirmation of the big guys jumping in as the level got hit. And this is a confirmation that made me enter the short trade. Right? So you can use the imbalance for example like this when the price hits a level and it doesn't need to be volume profile level. It could be for example previous days high or VWAP or anything that you like to trade. If price hits your support or resistance level and then you see aggressivity at that level or close to the level then it is a signal that the level is most likely going to work. Right? So at the level we saw the aggressivity that was clear signal to jump in the trade. So at the close of this 5m minute footprint I went short. So this is trading the aggressivity. Let me show you another example in here. uh you see a five minute footprint chart and first there was a strong rejection of higher prices and if you look at the volume profile on the left then there is a significant volume cluster formed within the rejection that's a setup that I like to trade the resistance being basically this zone this is a resistance now what happened when the price made a pull back to that resistance is that first there was a pin bar and then sellers aggressive sellers started to jump in those aggressive sellers those imbalances right that's a signal that somebody big is reacting to that level aggressively sellers are jumping in or one big seller and this is a confirmation for you to jump in that trade right to go short. So you wait for the close of this candle of this footprint and then it is short from here. You are reacting to the aggressive sellers that show up at your level. Now one more example of this. This is a long trade scenario. There was this rejection of lower prices and this daily low formed here. And when the price made that daily low, what happened? If you look at this footprint, this one, so many buying imbalances, right? Buyers jumping in. Aggressive buyers. There's even stacked buying imbalance here. This one. So, this is telling you buyers are active. Buyers really, really want to jump in no matter what and just push the price upwards. Right? So this is a clear signal of aggressive buyers jumping in and also a signal for you to jump in as well and participate in this uptrend. So that's the aggressive buyers and aggressive sellers and imbalance is really the ideal way how to track those guys. Now another thing that I like to show you is stacked imbalances. Stacked imbalance is when you have an imbalance but more of them are stacked at top of each other. Like for example in here we have three buying imbalances. My software is set to show this you know highlighted zone at the places where three or more imbalances are stacked. So if it's three or more stacked then it is a stacked imbalance. My software draws this rectangle there and that means that this is a support. Price makes a little pullback to it and you go long from there. Right now there's one more example on this chart. Those imbalances those are stacked imbalances. The software highlights that in green. Uh you wait for pullback. The price goes into that stacked imbalance zone and either from the top or from the middle of the zone you go long. Right? This is how you trade the stacked imbalances. Ideal case is for example when there is a trend and let's say that there is a stacked imbalance and a little pullback to it, a very quick pullback. Uh the quicker the better. And you enter the trade at the imbalance zone and enter the long and participate on that uptrend with tight stop-loss just behind the imbalance zone and riskreward uh bigger than two. Right? So if you enter here, then the takerit should be at least here. So you can gain twice the amount of money you risked, right? This is like the ideal scenario when you're trading those imbalances. General rule is tight stop-loss usually behind stacked imbalance or behind low of a candle. But you know just a couple of points and riskreward should always be positive. And since we are trading with such a tight stop-loss, you want to aim for riskreward uh bigger than two, right? So let me show you another example of the stacked imbalances here. In this case, this is a short trade scenario. There is a downtrend and within that downtrend, we have those stacked imbalances here. One, two, three stacked at top of each other. Right, the software draws this reddish rectangle. There's pullback to it and short from there. And by the way, there was a nice confirmation this setting imbalance, right? Aggressive sellers right in the middle of that uh stacked imbalance. So that's a little confirmation of the trade, little confirmation to go short. Now, one more example of this. And we have a pretty big stack imbalance in here. One, two, three, four, five, six imbalances stacked at top of each other. That's a pretty solid imbalance. And the price makes a pull back to that zone and you go short. from there. Right now, what I'm going to show you is my favorite strategy. It is a breakout strategy and it is a strategy based on imbalances. It's very, very simple. I'm pretty sure you guys will love it. So, it goes like this. First, you need to see a rotation. And by the way, we are still on five minute chart, right? Five minute footprint chart. So, you need to see a rotation something like this. footprints overlap each other. So that's a rotation. It's going nowhere. But then you see a breakout. This is the breakout. But how to tell this is not going to be a false breakout. Well, you tell because you see those imbalances here. And what the imbalances tell you? They tell you that there are aggressive buyers here, right? So, it's not likely to be a false breakout because aggressive buyers are jumping in and they're likely to follow this through and push the price upwards. So, when you see a breakout with imbalances, and it doesn't need to be that many as in here, but when you see a breakout with imbalances, it is a sign that this is not a false breakout, but a true breakout and the price will continue in the direction of the breakout. Right now looking at this picture here, there's also one smaller rotation in here followed by a breakout where many buying imbalances are right here on the ask side of that footprint. All right, so this is a clear sign of buyers jumping in and you should join them, right? You should go long as well. Now, let me show you a couple of more examples of the breakout strategy. All right. So, what you see here in this example, we have this nice and tight rotation which is followed by this footprint. This is a breakout. And the way to tell if this is a true breakout or a false breakout is to look whether they're selling imbalances, whether the sellers really mean it. And looking at this, I can tell that they really do mean it. So yeah, we see selling imbalances here right after the breakout occurred. So yeah, that's a beautiful signal to join those guys right away. You can wait for the candle to close in here and then, you know, go short from there. And again, the stop loss uh doesn't really need to be too wide. You can place it uh for example in here behind this heavy volume zone which is you know just a couple of ticks which is completely fine allowing you to trade with a positive riskreward ratio in this case even if you are trading with riskreward ratio too this would be a winning trade. Now let me give you another example of the breakout strategy. Again in here we have a rotation tight rotation where the footprints overlap. So that's how we can tell that that's a rotation, right? If the footprints overlap and from this zone there's this breakout and as you can see beautiful imbalances, right? So this is telling you the sellers mean it that this is not a false breakout and this is telling you you should join them. Right? So wait for the candle to close and go short from
