Order Flow Basics: What Every Trader Must Understand!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oDW2xGbCw5k

Most traders open the Orflow software and they have no idea what they're looking at. It's just numbers flying everywhere. It's matrix. They [music] can't really make a head or tail of it. But in this video, we'll break everything down and I'll show you the most important things that you need to know when reading the order flow. So, we'll talk about volume clusters, high volume nodes, imbalances, delta, cumulative delta, and so on. And in the end, I'll also show you how to organize everything together to create your own orflow workspace. All right, so let's get to it. The first thing and maybe the most important thing are volume clusters. Volume cluster is a place where heavy volumes were traded. It's important because big trading institutions usually reveal their trading activity in those volume clusters. on the screen. There are two significant volume clusters here. It is this one and this one. When you see a volume cluster, it's usually a sign that somebody big was trading there. Probably some trading institution. The reason why those are important is that first there are footprints of somebody big and second price likes to react to heavy volumes. So for example, if you take a look at this volume cluster, price moves away from it and makes a pullback and when it goes back to the area where this volume cluster was formed, price reacts there. So it worked as a support, right? Heavy volumes often work as strong supports and resistances. So that's why the volume clusters are important. They show significant support and resistances and activity of the big guys. Now I actually like to look for the volume clusters on this type of chart. It is a footprint chart which shows total volumes which means bid plus ask. Right? So the previous chart was showing bid and ask, but this one is showing the total bit plus ask. Uh for me, it's easier to read and easier to spot those heavy volume zones, right? This is the first one I was showing you. This is the second I was showing you. They simply stand out more visually. It's easier to me to read the chart. So that's why I use this kind of chart to look for those volume clusters. If you look at this example, then we have a rather significant volume cluster right here. What it could represent here is that when the price was dropping and reached this place, maybe there was some support here, somebody big started to trade here. heavy volumes were traded and eventually this resulted in change of a trend. It all happened around this significant volume cluster right here. Again, I can show you this on that volume chart. In my opinion, it's just better visible there. Right? This is that volume cluster that changed the direction of the trend. Now speaking of the importance of heavy volumes, I also need to mention high volume nodes. There is a high volume node in every footprint. My software does a black bracket around that high volume node and it's the place where the heaviest volumes were traded in each footprint. Right? So in each footprint there is a high volume node and it shows where the heaviest volumes were traded in that particular footprint. I'm not saying that you need to trade every high volume node that you can see on your chart, but it's usually handy to know where the heaviest volumes were traded in each footprint, right? Especially if you have, for example, those high volume nodes next to each other like in here. My software highlights that in yellow and it represents support or resistance. So for example in here there was a pullback to this double high volume node and the price reacted there. Right? So you want to keep track of the high volume nodes as well because as I was saying and I'll probably say it many times in this webinar heavy volumes are important. Always keep track of heavy volumes. Now another very very important thing here is delta. Very simply put delta is difference between buyers and sellers and shows who is stronger whether buyers or sellers. If delta is positive like for example in here in this footprint that means that buyers were in control in this footprint. If delta is negative like in here then in this footprint it means that sellers were in control right delta is ask that's the sum of those volumes minus bid that's the sum of those volumes and my software prints the delta below each footprint. So in each footprint you can tell who was in control buyers or sellers. Now needless to say we have the limit orders which can mess things up. They mess delta up. So it's not the holy grail of all indicators. Otherwise it would probably be but it's not because we have the limit orders which could mess things up. But still I consider delta a very very powerful tool and I always keep track of it. Now speaking of delta, I also like to use the cumulative delta which is nothing else than how the delta was developing since the start of the day. Right? So if you look at this picture here, then there's a summary right here at the bottom of the screen and in here it shows the cumulative delta. So the first footprint of the day was delta minus 62. It shows in here but it's not really visible. It's hidden behind this. Anyways, the next delta is - 10. So, - 62 - 10 is -72. Right? That's the cumulative delta - 72. It shows how delta was developing since the start of a day. The next delta is positive. It is 12. So, - 72 + 12 that's 60. Right? Now I must say this is quite challenging to keep track of if it's just you know numbers at the bottom of the screen. That's why I use this chart. It's also cumulative delta but in this case it is a simple line chart. It shows the same thing how the delta was developing since the start of a day. If you look at it like this it's way easier to read, right? One simple look and you know that cumulative data is dropping and that sellers are in control. Very very simple and very very effective. I really like to use the cumulative data. I'll show you how later. By the way, my software also gives you the option to use this line chart of cumulative delta rather than just you know the summary at the bottom like in here. Right? So if you get my software you'll get this one as well. very very handy feature. Now, another thing that's very very important to keep track of are imbalances. An imbalance is when one side of the market is way stronger than the other. For example, buyers were way stronger than sellers or sellers way stronger than buyers. The definition of way stronger is three times or more. Right? So take a look for example at this footprint and take a look at this number here 313 it's highlighted in blue that means that it is imbalance right my software highlights those so I can spot them easily and you always compare diagonally that's how you read orflow like this so you compare 313 to 96 if 313 13 is three times or more bigger than 96 which is then it gets highlighted in blue and it shows imbalance. Sellers were way more aggressive than buyers in here. If we look further in the chart we have imbalance in here then imbalance in here. Those are selling imbalances because they are at a bit. But there is for example buying imbalance right here. It shows at ask that means the buyers were in control here because we are comparing 35 contracts and 108 contracts. Right? So that's why it gets highlighted in blue because in here buyers were more aggressive. The way I use those imbalances is I often look for stacked imbalances. And stacked imbalance is where more imbalances are stacked at top of each other. Like in this footprint, you see all those blue numbers, those are imbalances. If they are at top of each other, then they are stacked imbalances and they often represent a strong support or resistance zone, right? because this is a place where sellers in this case sellers were way more aggressive than buyers. What my software does is it highlights those areas. So for example in here we have stacked buying in balance and it gets highlighted like this and represents strong support. So if there's a pullback the price is likely to react there. All right. This is how I like to trade the imbalances. I mean the stacked imbalances. So remember imbalance or stacked imbalance shows aggression and strength of uh either buyers or sellers. Now as I was saying it is very important to keep track of what the big picture is and for that I like to use volume profile. Volume profile is that thing on the left side of the screen. this histogram right here and it is a daily profile which shows how volumes were distributed through the whole day. One quick look and you know that there's a significant volume zone in here. Another significant volume zone in here. Light volumes in here. Light volumes in here. And this gives you the big picture, right? Which is so important when trading with order flow. I know that orflow is all about, you know, the details, but it only works if you know what's going on on the bigger picture. That's why volume profile is that important and that's why it's also part of my Oraflow software. Now, what I like to do now is do a little summary of the things that I showed you. There are a couple of them. So, right now, you can see all of them on one screen. And basically if you open a overflow chart like for example this one those are the things that you should focus on and you should always keep in mind. So you should keep track of the volume profile where the heaviest volumes are and what important areas in the chart are. You should also keep track of the heavy volume clusters. Also, you should look for high volume nodes like this one, this one, this one. Then you should look for stacked imbalances like those or those. You definitely want to look for multiple high volume nodes like this one, this one or this one. You should keep track of delta below each footprint and also cumulative delta. Right? So if you open up a orflow chart, those should be the things that stand out. Don't try to read every single number that you see on your screen. That's no help. You'll just get lost in that matrix. Just read those things and the overflow will start to make sense, right? It won't be complex. You just need to know what to look for, right? And those are the most important things to look for. Now, at this point, I like to show you my workspace. You can copy it. You can let it inspire you. And here is how it looks right here on the top left. Uh there's a chart which is a 30 minutes chart and it shows the total volumes. So, it's not a bit and ask chart only total volumes. On this chart, I sort of look at the bigger picture, right? Because it is a 30-inut chart. I look for the significant volume clusters like for example this one. I look at the volume profile and as I was saying this is the bigger picture. Another chart which shows the bigger picture is this one. It is something that I call trades filter. It only shows single trades that were bigger than X amount of contracts. So it filters out all the noise and shows only the big orders. For example, here one order of 182 contracts. As you can see in this case, this actually turned the trend from downtrend to uptrend. Right? So this is the trace filter. Very useful feature. It also gives me sort of a bigger picture. Then on the right side of the screen there is this chart and this one gives me more detailed look because this is bid and ask chart. It is five minute chart and I use this one to look for the orflow setups to look for confirmation setups to look for nuances. I also use this one to look at deltas and oops all the stuff which I'm going to show you today regarding let's say trade confirmations or other overflow setups. So this is the detailed look into bit and ask and the last chart this one it's a combination of two charts. The first one is a one minute chart of price and below that one minute chart of cumulative delta. I compare those and I look for divergencies there. So this is how the orflow workspace looks like. And in order not to lose the big picture, I also have a volume profile chart with simple candles. I have that on my other screen. It looks like this. And I have volume profile here which is a weekly volume profile. Then there's a volume profile which I can move around like this. That's flexible profile. I also have a weekly VWAP here. By the way, this is 30 minute chart. So this is the big picture. I look for my levels here at first and then I trade those levels uh with orderflow. So that's about the workspace. By the way, if you guys would like to join our trading community, you get access to all those or indicators to the volume profile indicators. We'll also install everything for you, set everything up, the workspaces, the data, the platform, everything. If you want to join us, then head over to my website. It is traderale.com. If you click trading course and tools, then it'll take you to this page. In here, you can browse my education and indicator packs. This is the orderflow pack which includes 12-hour course [music] on orflow trading, my orflow software and also my volume profile software. Also tech support which will install everything for you. There are also other packs which you can get here. The volume profile pack, the VWAP pack, smart money pack. You can get them separately in here or scroll down a bit. You can get them for a discounted price in here. All four together.
