Top Order Flow Trading Platforms Compared & How to Get Cheap Data
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UP6XzvwmDR0

Hey everyone, it's Dale here. Before you even get started with trading orderflow, you need two things. You need trading platform that supports the orderflow software and you need data. So in this video, I'm going to show you the most popular Orflow trading platforms and I'll show you what data you need for the symbols that you want to trade. And as a bonus, I'll also show you a little trick how you can get very very cheap orflow data. All right, let's get started. So in here there's a table with popular orflow platforms. There's the Ninja Trader platform. It has largest retail community. It has many footprint or volume delta add-ons. It's a little bit more complex to set up, but nothing I would be worried about too much. There are two versions of Ninja Trader. One is free and one costs $99 per month. I'm actually using the free version. [clears throat] And you know what the paid version gives you is you can trade through Ninja Trader. And the second thing you can use their orderflow, their volume profile and their VWAP indicators. But because I have my own indicators like Orflow, volume profile, VWAP and others, I don't actually need to use theirs. And also, I don't really want to trade through Ninja Trader. I want to trade through my broker, which is IC Markets. And I want to trade through their platform, which is C Trader. Because if you want to trade with Ninja Trader, you are basically stuck with brokers that they support, right? So, I'm using the free version. I'm using my indicators and I'm trading through my brokers platform. This way you can use the Ninja Trader for free. There are no other limitations to it. So I think it's perfect. Anyways, the next one is Sierra Chart. This one is also rather popular platform. I must say that it is bit outdated. So that's why I'm not really into it too much and it's also hard to configure. But you know upside is that they have really good data. It's unfiltered even historically. So this is definitely an upside and the reason why to use Sierra Charts. The cost is not terrible. $36 per month. But if I had to choose between Sierra and Ninja Trader, I would always pick Ninja Trader over Sierra. The next one is ADAS, which stands for Advanced Trading Analytical Software. It's limited to futures, crypto, and stocks. It's quite userfriendly, and it's built specifically for Orderflow. The cost is 85 bucks per month. The next one is Quant tower. It has a smaller community. That means fewer tutorials, but it's quite modern and strong footprint and Delta tools. So, this one is doable as well. It costs 70 bucks per month. The one that I've listed here, but I wouldn't really recommend using it is Trading View. I listed it because it's very popular, but the problem is that it lacks full data. It's rather simple software for retail traders. So, it's not really specialized in orflow, VWAP, volume profile like the rest. You've probably tried it. It's very easy to use. It's very intuitive and it hasn't included Orflow in the past, but right now it does include orderflow. I must say that I'm not really a huge fan of their order flow, but if you have Trading VF and if you have one of their higher plans, then you can give it a try. The cost is 70 bucks per month and I think that's the premium one where the overflow is included. In the cheaper ones, the orflow is not included. You need platform and you need data. So let's talk about the data. For intraday trading with Orflow, you already need precise data and you'll want the CME data. There are a couple of exchanges and you can pick one based on what you want to trade. There's the CME exchange where you'll get data for the ES which is futures for standards and pools index 500 for NASDAQ for Russell currency futures and interest rates. The cost is roughly 12 bucks per month. Then there is seabbot where you'll get data for the DAO for 30-year bonds, 10-year treasury notes, corns, soybeans, and wheat. Cost is also 12 bucks per month. Then there's comx where you'll get data for gold, silver, and copper futures. Again, 12 bucks per month. Then there's NYX where you'll get data for crude oil and natural gas futures. Again, 12 bucks per month. Or if you opt out for all of them together, then you can get that for roughly 30 or 40 bucks per month. Now, what I'd like to show you is a little trick how you can get all the CME data for just four bucks per month. So the first step is you open account with Ninja Trader. There are a couple of things that you need to fill out. The second thing is that you need to fund your account. There's no minimum balance. So you can deposit for example 100 bucks. The third thing once you've done the step one and step two is you can purchase the CME data for just four bucks per month. Only thing that you need to remember is that every month you need to place at least one trade. The volume doesn't matter. So it could be just the smallest order once per month and that's it. And if you do that, your account remains active and you can get all the CME data for just four bucks per month. I've made a video on this. It's more detailed. It's step by step. You can follow it. Uh there's a link here and I'll also drop the link in the video description so you can check it out. It will lead you through the whole process and you can get the data for four bucks a month. That's what I do. Now, here is a little summary of what I recommend. Uh so I recommend using the Ninja Trader 8 platform, using their free version. I recommend using the CME data for four bucks per month. And regarding the trading instruments, this is my personal preference and I like to trade currency futures and the ES. So I recommend starting with that. But obviously if you are not into currency futures or the ES, you can trade anything else you want. But you know this is just what I personally prefer and what I personally trade.
