ORDER FLOW: 3 Key Patterns to Spot Reversals 👍
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W4LfdqGupAs

Hello everyone, it's Dale here. In this video, I'm going to show you three orderflow patterns to spot trend reversals. You can trade this with any trading instrument that you want. I personally prefer currency futures and indices like the ES or the NQ. Regarding the time frame, what I prefer is fast time frames like 1 minute, 5 minute, 10, 15 or up to 30 minute time frame. So we are basically going to be talking about intraday trading. This is not for position trading only for intraday trading. All right. Now the software which I'm going to use that's my customate order flow or ninja trader 8 platform. You can use any other software that you prefer. All the functions should be there. So no worries about that. All right. So let's get started. Let's start with the first pattern which is called the absorption. So the first reversal pattern is called the absorption. Absorption basically tells you that either buying or selling pressure is being absorbed. That means that if you look at the footprint chart, the orflow chart, you will see a huge volumes both on bid and ask. If you take a look at this example right here, then the price was going upwards and then in here there was a high volume node with huge volumes both on bit that's here bid and on ask that's right here unusually huge volumes right and that's the absorption those heavy volumes in this example it is telling us that buyers were pushing the price upwards and we see their aggressive orders in here on ask. But at the same time at this price level sellers started to sell aggressively as well. We can see them in here. Those are aggressive sellers and the price stopped to move. That's important. With the absorption, the pressure either buying or selling gets absorbed, right? And that's why the price stops to move and heavy volumes are being accumulated either at one price level or across couple of very close price levels. Right? In this case, it was just one high volume area. So in this example, this is where the absorption took place and after that the trend changed because the buyers ran out of fuel, sellers took over and there was a change of a trend. So this is a bearish scenario of the absorption. Now the other picture here this is the bullish absorption. What you can see here is that the price was going downwards. Sellers were pushing the price down and then price stopped in here and buyers stepped in. They started to buy but at the same time sellers were selling but the buyers were buying everything the sellers had to sell. Right? That's why the price stopped to move. Sell of selling at the same time buyers buying. Right? The price stops to move. Huge volumes are being accumulated at this price level and eventually sellers run out of fuel and buyers took over. Right? So that's the absorption. Let me show you a couple of examples. What you see in here is a footprint chart. I believe that uh the symbol here is the ES. It's not too important what the symbol is. You can see that the price was going upwards, but then there's this huge high volume node with massive volumes both on bit and ask. And it's important that the heavy volumes are both on bit and on ask, right? So again buyers were buying aggressively but at the same time sellers stepped in and they started to sell. That's why the price stopped and eventually buyers ran out of fuel and sellers took over and there's the change of a trend. So that's the absorption right here. As I was saying, you need to look for huge volumes or unusually huge volumes. Now I don't have exact values for each instrument what the unusually huge volumes are because every session is different, every instrument is different, every time frame is different. But if you look at the chart and look at like what the usual or standard volume is like for example here or here or here or here or here then you'll know that when you see something like this that this is unusually huge order right or unusually huge volume cluster. So this was the bearish scenario of the absorption and let me now show you the bullish scenario. So what you can see here is that the price was dropping and then there was this huge heavy volume cluster formed. In this case it is not just at one price level but in this case it's spread over couple of levels. This is the absorption right unusually huge volumes being absorbed in this area. So again sellers were selling but at the same time buyers were buying. The price stopped for a while in here and then there was a reversal. All right. So when you spot absorption, there's a solid chance that the price will reverse because the pressure is being absorbed and it's likely that in a moment the price will turn and go the other way. All right, so that's the absorption, the first reversal pattern. The second reversal pattern is change in delta. I should probably say what delta is before we continue here. So delta is the difference between ask and bid. So if you look for example at this footprint right here then it is sum of those volumes that's ask minus the sum of those volumes that's bit. If the number is positive then the delta is positive. If the number is negative then the delta is negative. In this particular example, the delta is negative. That means that sellers which show on bit are more aggressive than buyers. Right? So that's what the delta is showing us. My software shows the delta below each footprint. Other software could be a little bit different, but every software does have the delta. So don't worry about that. It's pretty common feature. And the cool thing about the delta is that actually the price likes to follow the delta. So what I look for is change in delta because the price likes to follow the delta. Now let me show you on uh this example. What we see here is price going up. But then there's this footprint with negative delta. By the way, this footprint uh this is a bullish footprint, right? In other words, you can see it in here. The candle would look like this, but it is a bullish candle. So, this is a bullish candle, but the delta is negative, which is kind of weird. Usually, when you have a bullish candle, like for example, this one, the delta is positive. In this case, it's different and it signifies change in a trend. All right? Because sellers stepped in, they're more aggressive than buyers. So, the trend is likely to change. And the divergence between price and delta is that we are looking at bullish footprint and the delta is negative. Right? That's the divergence because basically price goes up, delta goes down. That's the divergence. Let me show you on a couple of examples now. So what you see here is a little downtrend in here. As you can see in that downtrend we have negative deltas which is quite normal because when the price is going down the delta should go down as well. But then we have a bearish footprint but at the same time we have a positive delta. This is telling you that buyers stepped in and that in this footprint the buyers are more aggressive than the sellers. So a trend change is likely to happen. In this case the next footprint also has a positive delta which is another sign of aggressive buyers. Right? So the delta is telling you that buyers are stepping in and that the trend will change. All right. Let me show you one more example of this. In this case, price was going up. We had positive deltas below all those footprints. So everything is as it should be. But this is where you should be alert because we have a bullish footprint but at the same time negative delta. In other words, aggressive sellers are stepping in. Right? So even though the price is going up, delta is going down. So we have divergence between price and delta. And this is a sign that a trend will change. Now another signal comes in the next footprint where also there's a negative delta next footprint also negative delta and here we go downtrend. So change in delta is a powerful tool how to track reversal of a trend. Now, before I show you the third pattern to spot the reversal using Orflow, let me just show you real quick how you can get your hands on my customade orflow software and my Orflow trading course. You can get that on my website. It is at traderdale.com. And if you click this button, trading course and tools, then it'll take you to this page. If you scroll down a bit, then right here you can get the orflow pack which includes my custommade orflow software also orflow trading video course and my custommade volume profile indicators. But let's get back to the third pattern and the third pattern is imbalances. Imbalance means that one side of the market becomes significantly stronger than the other side of the market. So for example, buyers become significantly stronger than sellers. Or the other way, sellers become significantly stronger than buyers. When I say significantly, I mean three times or more. That's how I use the imbalance. I set it to three times or more. Uh you can also use different values like four times, five times. You can set that up in the indicator settings. I use 300% which means I look for values which are three times or more bigger. Right? So let me show you on this example. The imbalances are highlighted in blue. That's what my software does. And there's an important thing you need to know about Orflow. And the thing is that you read the footprints diagonally. So for example here you compare 18 to zero. That's how you compare bid and ask right or 104 you compare it to 17. And if one of the numbers is three times or more bigger than the other number which you compare it to, then it gets highlighted in blue because that means that at this price level, either buyers or sellers are way more aggressive, right? So for example, in this case, we have 104 contracts compared to 17. 104 is highlighted in blue because it is three times or more higher than 17. Right? So here sellers were way more aggressive than buyers. Right? And on this example what you can see is that the price is going very very aggressively up. You can see all those imbalances on ask. That means buyers are in control. Buyers are way more aggressive than sellers. But then there's a reversal and sellers are taking over and they are way more aggressive than buyers. And you can tell by all those imbalances right here. This is called stacked imbalance where three imbalances are at top of each other. My software highlights that in red like this and it shows strength of sellers, right? Because here sellers are dominating. They are way stronger than buyers, right? And this very often occurs when there is a trend reversal. So let me show you a couple of examples how you can use this. So in here the price was going up but then if you look at the imbalances you can see that aggressive sellers were way stronger than buyers. All those are selling imbalances telling you that there are aggressive sellers and aggressive sellers drive a downtrend. Right? Like this. So this is a sign that the uptrend is most likely over and sellers are taking control are way more aggressive than buyers and that the price will likely reverse and go downwards. Now you can also notice the delta. We talked about delta before. So you can see that in here the price was going up but there were negative deltas. So this is like the first sign that the trend could change. After that after those negative deltas you see those selling imbalances and that should be where you pull the trigger. Now one more example of this. In here we have a strong downtrend but after that strong downtrend we see sign of aggressive buyers. We see imbalances right here. There is a stacked imbalance right here and then another stacked imbalance in here. Aggressive buyers are taking control. That means trend is likely to change. All right. So those are imbalances. But in this case, it's not just about the imbalances. You can also notice the delta right here. You can see that at the low of this reaction, the delta changed also in here. Positive delta. And also there's a sign of absorption right here. This is the absorption right unusually huge volumes both on bit and on ask. So in here we actually have all the three patterns which I was showing you absorption change in delta and imbalances. All right and see how beautifully this worked. Now there is one more thing I need to tell you before I wrap the video up. The thing is that those reversal patterns are best used in significant areas in the chart. So for example, if you see that there was a daily high, a strong daily high like for example this one and then the price is going back into that area then you want to open the orifo software here and at this zone you want to look for those patterns right this is where you look for the patterns because the price reached a significant support or resistance zone which formed in the fast. Now this resistance zone could be for example price action formation like for example strong pin bar could be important swing high swing low like low of the day or high of the day like in here. It could be volume profile zone like heavy volume zone or daily point of control or it could be VWAP. So whenever you see a significant zone in the chart, significant support or resistance zone, then you want to look for those orflow patterns which would tell you and confirm that this zone is likely to work as a zone where the trend will change. That's how you can make the best out of those patterns. So I hope you guys like the video. Let me know what you think in the comments and I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time. And until then, happy trading.
