How to Trade Forex With Order Flow - Full Webinar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bV3YjGstEiE

Hey guys, it's Dale here. Welcome to the webinar. Today's topic is going to be a bit controversial topic and it is Forex trading with Order Flow. Here is what we'll cover today and what you will learn. So, we'll cover why Forex trading with Order Flow is such a controversial thing. What are the problems when you want to trade Forex with Order Flow software? How to overcome those problems? Then I'll show you a couple of Forex trading strategies with Order Flow. Then we'll cover using Order Flow to set proper take profit and stop loss placement. And then we'll cover some practical things like trading platform, getting data, recommended Forex pairs to trade, and then I'll point you to some further education. So, let's get started. Let me open up Order Flow chart and talk a little bit about Order Flow basics. So, before you you see a Order Flow chart, it can look either like this or I can switch the appearance of it. And it can look like this. As you can see, there's always a candle in the middle and on the left and right uh there are some numbers, which are numbers of lots traded within the candle at each price level. Now, what I prefer is actually the look which I had there before because uh there are those colors which are clearly showing me what is going on in the market, whether buyers or sellers are more in control. Because if the sell is in the red, then it means more aggressive sellers were present there at this price level. And if it's green, then it is telling me that more aggressive buyers were present there. So, at first look, I'm able to tell whether I'm dealing with aggressive buyers or aggressive sellers. All right? Also, the darker shade of the cell the heavier volumes were traded in that cell. And if I switch back to the previous look, you can't really see that. So, let me show you again. All right? This is just a lot of numbers that don't really make any sense if you just look at them like that. So, that's why I prefer that colored look, this one. So, basically what the Order Flow is showing is aggressive buyers versus aggressive sellers. If you look at, for example, at this footprint right here, then the left side of it is called bid and those are mostly trades of aggressive sellers. And the right side is called ask and this shows aggressive buyers. All right? So, the bid, the left side, is sellers. Ask, the right side of the footprint, is aggressive buyers. If there are more aggressive buyers, then the cell is green. If there are more aggressive sellers, then the cell is red. All right? Now, the Order Flow is ideal tool for intraday trading. People often ask me whether they can use it for swing trading as well or for planning long-term investments. My answer is no. It's ideal tool for intraday trading only. It's very detailed because it shows every trade that's placed in the market, which allows us to track the big institutions who move and manipulate the market. You can see everything that's going on in the market in detail, but when you are trading swing trades or when you are doing long-term trading, then you sort of need to see bigger picture. Ideal tool for that is volume profile, but not Order Flow. Order Flow is ideal tool for intraday trading and for scalping. All right? Now, you don't need to read all those numbers because if you look at it, it's just matrix, but there are certain things which you want to look for. The things are mostly heavy volumes, heavy volume zones, or, for example, places which are highlighted in yellow like this, which means two high volume nodes next to each other. Those are also important places. Then you look for imbalances. Those are the blue numbers. I'll get to that later, but I'm just showing you there only certain things that you are trying to spot when you are reading Order Flow. You don't need to read uh like the whole thing because that wouldn't really be possible. Also, those numbers below each footprints those are pretty important. They talk about the delta. Another important thing when you're reading Order Flow. All right? The delta shows whether within the whole footprint if it was sellers or buyers who are more aggressive within the whole footprint. All right? So, don't be scared. It's not really that complicated. You only need to learn to look for the important things. All right? You don't need to read every individual number here. Now, as I was saying in the beginning, Forex trading with Order Flow is pretty controversial topic. There are two reasons for that. The reason number one is that Forex market is decentralized. So, all those volumes that you see in the Order Flow, all those lots, it's not actually all the numbers traded in the whole Forex market. It's only part of it. If you are trading futures and not Forex, then all the numbers, all the volumes that you see in the chart would actually be all traded contracts in the whole world. So, this would be the complete picture. All right? That's the big advantage when you are trading futures because this is a centralized market. This means that if you open up the Order Flow chart, you see all the contracts that were traded in the whole world. With Forex, you only see the data that your broker provides. So, the bottom line is the data you are seeing is not from the whole market. This is the reason number one why people are against using Order Flow with Forex. Now, reason number two. Another reason why Forex trading with Order Flow is controversial is that when you trade futures, then you are getting bid and ask data. Remember, bid, that's the left side of the footprint, that's the sellers, aggressive sellers I should say. And the right side is ask, aggressive buyers. All right? Sellers, buyers. This is what you get when you trade futures. When you trade Forex, you only get total volume, which is this. Those are the same charts, by the way. So, instead, for example, in here of 10 contracts traded on bid and two contracts traded on ask, what you get is just this info. Total volume at this price level was 12 contracts or 12 lots, which is a shame, isn't it? Because this information is telling you way more than just total volumes. So, that's another reason why some traders don't like using Order Flow on Forex. So, before we move forward, let's agree on one thing. The thing is that the best way to utilize Order Flow is to use it with futures. All right? So, if you want to trade Forex, then you can trade, for example, currency futures. Which is basically Forex. You're limited to major pairs only, but you can trade currencies only you'll be using futures contracts to do so. Because futures is centralized and you are getting bid and ask data. But because this webinar is about Forex trading with Order Flow, you're probably guessing that Forex trading with Order Flow may not be such a bad idea in the end. Which is correct. Because there are ways how to use Order Flow on Forex. This is what I'm going to show you in this webinar. Let's first talk about those two problems uh that we already mentioned. All right? Uh two problems with Forex trading using Order Flow. Problem number one, Forex is decentralized. So, you are not seeing the data from the whole market. Problem number two, Forex only gives us total volume, not bid and ask. So, let me now address both those problems and uh let's have a sort of a deeper look into this thing. So, problem number one, Forex is decentralized. What is a common mistake is that people say you only get data from your broker. Fact is you are getting data from your broker's liquidity provider, which is way bigger sample than just if you were getting data from people trading from your broker. So, you are actually getting a pretty solid sample. And if you are using good data provider, like for example, the FXCM, which I'm going to show you later, then you're actually getting pretty solid sample of the whole market to base your trading decisions on. So, I don't really think there is a problem with this. And also, I don't really think that you need good data from the whole market. As I was saying, if you have good provider, like the FXCM, big enough sample is enough. Right? You don't need to see the whole market. It's enough if you see a huge chunk of it. Now, also, another point is that there are way bigger volumes traded on Forex than on futures. Those two markets, like if you trade, for example, Euro futures and Euro dollar, they are correlated. If you look at the price chart of those two, they move in the same way. They are correlated. But there are way more volumes traded on Forex than on futures. So, the Forex data you are getting actually has really good informative value. All right. So, this is to address the first problem, which in my opinion is not really a huge deal because of those reasons I just mentioned. All right? Now, let's talk a bit about the second problem, which is Forex only gives total volume. We are not getting bid and ask. We only get total volume, which is incomplete information. There are two things that we can do about this. First, you use special type of calculation of your order flow software. Not all the order flow software can do this, but my custom made software is able to do it. And what it does is it calculates bid and ask based on the number of ticks the price makes up and the number of ticks the price makes down. So, if you have tick data, like, for example, from FXCM, then you can use this calculation, up tick down tick calculation, to estimate the bid and the ask. It is a really cool thing, and I'm going to show you how it works later. But before that, I want to address the second thing, which you can do about the problem that Forex only gives total volumes. And the second thing which you can do is that you can trade strategies that don't require bid and ask data. So, that's basically strategies that work with total volumes. Right? Because there are strategies like that. I don't know if somebody showed you before or if you saw it somewhere before, but there are setups which you can use that don't require you to have bid and ask data, only the total volumes. And this is actually going to be big part of this webinar. But before that, let me address at the up tick down tick calculation a bit. As I was saying, this special calculation is based on how many times the price ticks upwards versus how many times the price ticks downwards. So, it is not giving us a true bid and ask. It is only an estimate, but it is very precise. And right now, I'll show you a little comparison where you'll be able to see how precise this calculation is. All right? So, let me switch back to the chart. All right. So, this is it. And this is the comparison which I wanted to show you. So, the left chart is Euro futures. I'm showing you this intentionally on futures so we can actually do the comparison. A 5-minute time frame. This is also 5-minute time frame, also Euro futures. But each chart is calculated differently. The chart on the left is showing us bid and ask data. All right? Bid and ask data from data provider. The chart on the right is showing us up tick down tick calculation. This is the little trick that my software does. I'm pretty proud of it as it is pretty unique and it works pretty nicely. And right now, I want to look at those charts and compare them to show you how precise the up tick down tick is. So, I'm not going to compare each number from each cell because firstly, that would be just crazy. Secondly, as I was saying, numbers are not really that important because what is important is some specific zones, like, for example, heavy volume zones. So, at first glance, you know what, let me make it more like this so the charts align more. Yeah, like that. So, let me just go over the most important areas I see on both charts right now. All right? So, if we start from left, then this is definitely a very strong volume zone, which really stands out. The chart on the right with the up tick down tick calculation, it also showing this super significant zone. And the most important zone within this zone is this cell at the top, which is in that black bracket. And it is in a black bracket because it is the cell with the heaviest volumes within the whole footprint. So, it is important that this cell is at the same place in both those areas. So, as you can see, the up tick down tick calculation is very, very precise as it is showing the exact area exactly where it is. And it's showing us the heavy volume node exactly at the same place. Now, the numbers don't match. As you can see, numbers of contracts don't match. But it's not that important. What is way more important is that it correctly showed the heavy volume zone exactly where it should be. Another very important thing that I can see here is this double volume node. That doubled volume node, which is highlighted in yellow. This one and this one. Again, exactly at the same place. In both cases, highlighted in yellow, and this is showing us a very important zone to trade from. And later in this webinar, I'm going to show you why. So, as you can see, the comparison is pretty precise, which means that you can actually depend on the up tick down tick calculation. And you can use it to trade Forex even if you don't have bid ask data. So, if I switch to Forex, it will look like this. It will show you the bid and ask data. Even though we are actually not getting that data, but I'm using the up tick down tick calculation here, and it simply works. So, you can actually trade Forex like this, even though you don't have true bid ask data. You just need order flow software which is able to do that up tick down tick calculation. Right? For example, my order flow software. Now, if you are interested in order flow trading using bid and ask like here, uh then uh what I recommend is going to my website. This is it, trader-lich.com. And there's a webinar which focuses on that. So, if you go to the video section, you need to scroll back and go to the page um you need to go to the page four. Then right here, this is the webinar. It's freely available. I just go and play it on YouTube. And as you can see, in the webinar, I'm showing you how to trade setups where you use the bid and ask data. So, that's about trading strategies that are based on bid and ask. But what I want to focus on today is something a bit different. And it is order flow setups based on total volumes. So, we are not going to be using that up tick down tick calculation. We are not going to be using bid and ask data. We are going to focus on strategies that don't require that and on strategies that work with total volumes only. We'll be talking about volume clusters and about volume clusters created within a trend and within a rejection. I'm going to show you a setup which works with multiple high volume nodes and about trades filter. So, let's get to it and let's start with volume clusters. With this strategy, you want to set time frame to 5-minute to 60-minute time frame. What I prefer is 30-minute time frame. You can see that on the picture here. So, this is a 30-minute time frame. And you look for a volume cluster within a trend. So, what you see here on this picture is order flow. It doesn't show bid and ask. It only shows total volumes and you see that in here there was a strong uptrend. Within the uptrend, you want to see a dark area like this one because dark area, at least with my software, signifies a place where heavy volumes were traded. And heavy volumes means big trading institutions. So, you look for institutional activity within a trend. So, in this case, buyers were pushing the price upwards and in here they were active. They were adding massive loads of volumes to the longs. Then they pushed the price upwards some more. So, you want to see the price move away from that volume cluster. Right? This is volume clustering right here. Price moves away from that volume cluster. You mark that level in your chart. What I prefer is mark the beginning of that volume cluster. And then you wait for a pullback. You wait for the moment where the price touches that support line again. And then, because this was an uptrend, you trade long from there. Right? So, you enter at a pullback. The reason why the price likes to react to this zone, to the heavy volume clusters, is that, as I was saying, the heavy volume clusters represent places where institutions were active placing lot of orders and they are usually defending those zones. So, when the price makes a pullback to this zone, which is clearly important for those institutions here, they become active and actively push the price upwards away from those positions which they entered here. Right? That's why this setup works. That's the logic behind it. Now, here is another example of that setup. In this case, the price was dropping in a downtrend and within the downtrend, there was a significant volume zone. Volume clustering here. Also in here, which adds strength to it. So, significant volume zone within a trend. You wait for a pullback. When the price hits that zone, you go short in the direction of the trend. All right? In this case, sellers who were pushing the price downwards were active here adding to their shorts. So, this is an important zone for those sellers. So, you wait for that pullback and trade from there as those sellers are defending this heavy volume zone, defending their shorts which they placed there. Right? So, again, you look for significant volume cluster within a trend and then you trade pullback to it. Here is another example, a long trade example. That was a strong uptrend and within that uptrend, significant volume zone in here. So, you wait for a pullback. When the price reaches the beginning of that heavy volume zone, you go long. Now, people often ask me how long they should wait. Like, if the pullback needs to occur the same day or the next day. Well, usually the pullback should happen within next couple of days. Let's say a week, 2 weeks max. All right? Then I usually don't trade it. But, what is very important is that the price makes some price action above that volume cluster when it gets formed. All right? So, it's not like instant test. Well, actually this also sometimes work, but what I prefer is if there is some price action above that volume cluster before that pullback occurs. All right? So, if we are looking at a 30-minute time frame here, then I would say at least two footprints above that heavy volume zone. So, one two complete footprints above that zone. Afterwards, if there was that pullback, it would be a valid trade for me. All right? A valid signal to go long from here. Now, here is another example. There was an uptrend and significant volumes were traded here. This is the beginning of that heavy volume zone. This is a pullback to it and boom, beautiful reaction. See? We don't even need bid and ask data to trade this. Which is pretty cool, isn't it? Now, this is another scenario where I like to trade a significant volume cluster and it is when it forms within a rejection. Rejection is when price goes one way aggressively, then turns and goes the other way also aggressively. Somewhere within the rejection, somewhere close to the place where the price actually turned, there should be a volume cluster. Like this one. Right here. This volume cluster is the place where buyers started to buy everything sellers were selling and they started their buying pressure and pushed the price upwards from there. So, this is the most important zone within the rejection. This is the beginning of it. So, you wait for pullback and go long from there. Now, let me show you another example of this. There was a sharp rejection of lower prices with significant volume cluster formed within the rejection. So, you wait for a pullback and go long from there. Now, here is another example. Sharp rejection of lower prices with significant volume clustering here. And again, I want to emphasize that you don't actually look at those numbers. They're not significant. You only look at the shades of gray. If the order flow gets dark, then it means that heavy volumes were traded there. So, it takes just a bit of experience to start seeing those in the chart at first glance. So, reading order flow can actually be pretty quick. All right? So, here is a significant rejection of lower prices with heavy volumes. You wait for a pullback and take the trade from there. Now, one last example of this. There was a significant rejection of higher prices. Within the rejection, you need to see heavy volumes. If there are no heavy volumes within the rejection, then you just don't trade it. All right? You need to see that institutional activity. You need to see the heavy volumes there. So, this is the resistance. You wait for the pullback and you go short from there. Now, another setup which you can use with order flow and with Forex, which doesn't give you bid and ask data, is strategy that uses multiple high volume nodes. What high volume node is is basically that node which is in bracket, which means that it has the heaviest volumes within the whole footprint. So, as you can notice, every footprint on this picture has that one high volume node. And that high volume node is the most important level within each footprint. Now, if you have two of those next to each other, like in here and in here, then what my software does is that it highlights those in yellow. In this case, it doesn't. I think it's probably because I was using older version of my order flow or maybe I've just disabled that function, but my order flow actually highlights those in yellow like this if they are next to each other. And that means that this is a very significant zone you want to trade from. And cool thing is that you trade it in a very similar manner as with the previous strategy, with the heavy volume cluster strategy. In this case, you are trading just from this double volume node or multiple high volume node. So, in here there was a downtrend. And within the downtrend two high volume nodes got formed next to each other. So, you wait for a pullback back to that zone. And in this case, because there was a downtrend, you go short from there. All right? So, as you can see, you trade this very similarly as the previous setup I showed you. In this case, you just need to see two high volume nodes or more than two, which is even better, next to each other. Let me show you a couple of examples, so it's crystal clear. This was pretty cool because there were two double high volume nodes. In here and in here. From this place, the price continued to drop. So, what you do is you mark this zone in your software, wait for the pullback, and trade from there. All right? What the high volume zones are telling you is that institutions were active at this price level. This price level was very important for them. All right? So, chances are they'll be defending that level when the price reaches back to it. That's why the chances are that there'll be a reaction. Now, what's even better than two high volume nodes next to each other is three high volume nodes next to each other. Like in here. So, we had a downtrend. And within the downtrend, this occurred. Those three high volume nodes next to each other. So, you wait for the pullback and go from there. In this case, I was working with 30-minute time frame. I prefer to do this with the 30-minute time frame, but you can choose different one if it suits you more. 5-minute or hourly time frame. I wouldn't go past hourly time frame, though. All right. Last example of this. Here was a rejection of high prices and double node within the rejection, which is pretty cool. The price moved away from it, went back, and boom. This was the reaction. By the way, looking at this chart, there was also this heavy volume cluster here, also this one. So, I bet this worked as a strong support. If I was trading it, I would wait for pullback to this place and go long from there. Also, this heavy volume zone combined with this volume zone and the fact that those two high volume nodes were just one tick next to each other. So, this would also be a support. If the price dropped even lower to this one, it would be another long from there. All right? And thing which I'm considering here and which I haven't told you yet is that this is within a rejection of low prices. All right? So, within important zone. And that's what I like, actually, when support or resistance forms within such important zone like this one. All right. So, let's go to the next setup. And this one works with the trades filter. What the trades filter does is it shows only the big orders, the big guys, the institutions. It filters out the noise of the market, filters out all those small numbers, all those small contracts jumping in. It shows only the big guys. Let me switch over uh to the chart and show you how you can set it up. So, uh this is the chart uh which I was uh showing you before, euro dollar. We are at 5-minute time frame. I right-click the chart, go to data series, and in here, you adjust the minimal trade size. So, let me go, for example, to 10, which means that it will show only trades bigger than 10 lots. All right? As you can see, there are still a lot of those. So, you need to use bigger filter. Let's try 50. Every market is a bit different, so you need to adjust this trades filter to the market for which you are trading. All right. So, now, as you can see, it filtered out all the noise except for one huge order of So, this is definitely a big trading institution stepping in. By the way, you can change the look of this a little bit because this way it uh looks a bit weird, at least to me. What I like to do is switch the mode to candle, and then it will look like this. All right? But, what you want to do when the market is not giving you enough signals, you want to lower the minimal trade size. All right? So, as you can see, we used 50 on the euro, which is clearly too much. It's filtered out too many trades, so let's set it to 30. Let's take a look at the same period. Yeah. In this case, 30 looks like the ideal. Maybe you may want to go uh to 35 or 40 to filter out more trades. Yeah, that's too much. That was too much. 35 it is. Good thing is that you do this only once with each market you want to trade. All right? Each market is a bit different. Usually, there are different volumes traded at each market, so that's why you need to set this uh trades filter or minimal trade size, however you want to call it, differently for each market. So, this is how I would set it for euro. But, uh let's get back to the presentation because I want to show you a setup which is based on those filtered trades. So, this is how the setup works. All right? You set the trades filter as I just showed you, and you look for those trades that are left in the market, the footprints of big institutions placing huge orders. So, for example, in here, it means one trade, one single trade, 31 contracts. 31 lots. All right? So, you want to see this, and any number will do. But, you need to filter out the noise, so you need to be pretty much certain that this is somebody big. All right? Then, you want to see the price move away from that place and make a pullback. Then, you trade from there. All right? If the price moved upwards from that level, then when the pullback occurs, you want to go long. But, the price needs to move away from the big order. That's important. And then, make the pullback. All right? Here are more examples of this. Right there. A big trade. Price moves downwards from it, so you're getting ready for a short. Boom. That's the reaction. Another one was in here, so you wait for a pullback. Boom. Short from there. Again, I'm using 30-minute time frame for this. All right? My preferred time frame for this setup. Another example. There was a huge order traded in here. You wait for pullback and go long from there. By the way, there was also one more in here, but the price turned one tick before the level. Tough luck. One thing which I haven't mentioned yet is that it doesn't really matter if the number occurs on bid or on ask. All right? It doesn't matter. This number was on bid. This one on ask. But, in this case, I don't really care. Also, if you are trading Forex, then all those will show on bid by default, just because it's Forex. But, it doesn't matter. So, don't worry about it. All right? Another example. A huge trade traded in here. You wait for a pullback. You need at least two whole footprints formed below it. And then boom. That's what you wanted to see, and that's what you wanted to trade. All right? So, those are the strategies you can use with total volumes, even if you don't have access to bid and ask data, which is typically for Forex. And now I want to cover another important aspect of trading, which is take profit and stop loss placement. And because this webinar is about order flow trading, we will be using order flow to help us set ideal place for take profit and ideal place for stop loss. There is only one main rule to follow when placing take profit. And the rule is place take profit before heavy volume area. You may want to remember that. Little demonstration. This is another order flow chart with total volumes. Imagine you went short from here for some reason. Doesn't matter the reason. We are talking about placing take profits here, all right? So, imagine you are short, and you're looking for ideal place to quit your short trade. You look at the order flow at the place which took place before your short trade got triggered, which means this one. And you're looking for significant volume zone, or significant volume cluster, I should say. And this place would definitely stands out as this one. And you want to place your take profit at the beginning of that zone. The reason is that this volume cluster could potentially be a threat for your short trade, and it could potentially turn the price, because as I was showing you with that volume cluster setup, this is potential support, and you don't want to trade against that, correct? So, if you went short from here, if you are in in a short trade, then you want to quit your trade here, because this is just too risky. Another example. Imagine you are in a short trade, for example, from here. And you're looking for a place where to take your profit. This is a no-brainer. At least if I was trading this, it would be a no-brainer. I would quit the trade before it reached this massive volume cluster. This is where I would quit the trade. As you can see, the price was dropping afterwards a little bit, then delta turned positive, 195. This is massively positive delta, which is telling me that aggressive buyers are jumping in. If I didn't quit the short trade at this place, then it would just be a madness. All right? Because this is clearly telling you buyers are about to defend this place. They are jumping in. The price is most likely to turn. So, this would be the final warning. But, the thing is that sometimes the market just didn't give you the final warning. So, it's better to be careful. Quit the trade in here, bank the money, and buy something nice. It's definitely better than seeing your profitable trade turning against you. Now, another example of take profit placement. Imagine that for some reason you went short, for example, from here. You are in a short trade, and you're looking for a place where to quit your trade. Another no-brainer, at least for me, would be at the beginning of this heavy volume zone. There's one heavy volume zone in here, another in here. This is the beginning of that heavy volume area. So, this would be the place to quit the trade. Potentially, the price could turn here and go upwards, which in this case it did. Now, this is beautiful, because we have double volume node here. Also, heavy volume clusters in both those footprints in here. So, if you went long, for example, from here, then this would be the take profit, because this is the beginning of that zone. Potentially, a very strong resistance. And as you can see, the price reacted to that resistance. All right? This is the beginning of that heavy volume zone. So, this is where you want to take your money and run. Now, this wouldn't really be complete if we didn't talk about stop loss. Again, there's one main rule which you want to follow when placing stop loss. And the rule is that you want to place stop loss behind heavy volume area. Now, what follows is couple examples of stop loss placement. This is the first one. Imagine you are trading from those two high volume nodes within this downtrend. All right? So, you wait for pullback. Trade short from there, from this double node, right? And the ideal place to place the stop loss is behind this heavy volume area. I'm talking mostly about this heavy volume area, right? So, ideal place for stop loss would be here, behind heavy volume zone, also at the top of this little swing point where the price turned. So, this would be the ideal place for stop loss here. In this case, there was a support marked by this significant volume cluster. So, this is the support. You wait for the pullback, trade long from there. When the price hits this level, you go long from there, and you want to place your stop loss behind heavy volume area. This is the heavy volume area, but what I prefer is placing stop loss behind heavy volume area and also below swing point. So, in this case, this is the swing point. So, I would place the stop loss in here. And maybe you've noticed this, but I'm not saying how many pips are ticks the stop loss should be, because this purely depends on volume distribution and on that swing point. And the cool thing about this is that this is pretty universal. So, it's not like I'm telling you to use 10 pip stop loss on euro dollar and 8 pip stop loss on Australian dollar US dollar, cuz those two markets have different volatility, which changes over time. So, it's not ideal, but in this case, you base your stop loss and also take profit on the volumes and on price action, which is universal, and it automatically adjusts to the volatility on the instrument you are trading. So, back to the examples. In here, there was a downtrend, and within that downtrend we had significant volume zone, significant volume cluster. This marks a resistance, all right? So, you would wait for a pullback and trade short from that resistance. Ideal stop loss would be behind this heavy volume zone, and I personally would place it in here, which is above this little swing point. But, if it was just too wide, you know, the stop loss, if it was just too wide, then you could also place it in here. If you prefer tighter stop losses, you could just place it right behind that heavy volume zone. Now, one more example of this. There was an uptrend. Within this uptrend, there was significant volume cluster, which means this is a support. So, you wait for pullback, trade from there. If that doesn't work, then you want to take your stop loss and quit the trade in here, which is behind heavy volume zone, and also below this little swing point here. All right? This is how I would place the stop loss. Also, notice that we have actually two heavy volume zones here. This one and this one. So, we wanted to place the stop loss behind them like this. All right. So, that's about the take profit and stop loss. What I want to show you next is little inspiration how you can set up your order flow workspace. So, let me switch over back to the chart again. And the workspace can look for example like mine. As you can see, I'm on the euro dollar. All those four charts are euro dollar. Top left is 30-minute time frame. Top right, 5-minute time frame. Bottom left, 30-minute time frame. Bottom right, 30-minute time frame. So, let me cover those one by one and uh talk about the reasoning why I have them like that. First, let's start with this one, 30-minute time frame. And I have the volumes here, total volumes here. This chart shows me the big picture and it shows me the total volumes and how they were distributed. I'm looking mostly at the zones where the volumes were heavy. Um the chart on the right side of that is 5-minute time frame and this one is set to the up tick down tick calculation. At least when I'm trading forex because as I was saying forex doesn't give you bid and ask data. So, to get at least an estimate of how bid and ask data looks like I need to use that calculation and then it looks like this. See, I have bid, I have ask, I have information about delta, which is very important because it shows aggressive buyers versus aggressive sellers within each footprint. Now, this chart that's the trade filter. We've already covered that. It allows me to filter out the noise and see only the big orders. And the last chart here is a 30-minute time frame where I don't have order flow. I only have simple price action here with volume profile, which allows me to see the big picture. All right? So, this is what you can fit on one screen. Actually, I have three screens, so um I have those spread out. But, as you can see, I managed to pull this together on one screen and just on this one screen, I have pretty decent overview of what's going on in the market. All right? I have those four charts linked. You see that bluish color here on all those charts. You can set this up if you click it, you can set a color here and if you set all those charts in the same color then they are linked and if I change trading instrument in one, it will change in all the remaining three as well, which is pretty handy. All right? Because you always want to see one market on all those charts to see the big overview of that market. Now, another thing that I want to cover here is ideal pairs to trade when you are trading forex using order flow. The best results at least for me are with major pairs. And what's more challenging is crosses. In my trading history, I have always had the best results with euro dollar. So, if you are starting with this, what I recommend is just start with this one pair, just with euro dollar. Apply all those strategies that you learned today just on this one pair and get familiar with it and learn to trade just this one pair. As I was saying, every trading instrument and every forex pair acts a bit differently. There are different volumes and different lots traded at each of those pairs. There's also different volatility at each different pair. So, that's why I'm saying stick to one and become master of one. Don't worry, you'll have enough trading opportunities. And if I can recommend one forex pair to trade and to try all this with, then it will be the euro dollar. That's where I always had the best results. Now, I haven't talked about platform yet. Uh the platform which I'm using for order flow charting is NinjaTrader platform. Here is the link. It is a free platform. Well, actually, they also have a paid version, but you don't need to buy it. The free version is absolutely fine. It has all the functionality you're going to need. The functions are unlimited, so there's not really any reason why you should pay for their paid version. All right? And this is also what I recommend to members of my trading course. All right? So, get their free version. That's all you will need. It is a free platform. You'll get a free data connection to FXCM data provider. I've already mentioned this one. They provide very good tick data. This is a forex data, so you'll be able to trade forex using order flow with this data. And I personally use the NinjaTrader for analysis only, which means that I do the analysis on NinjaTrader platform, but I execute my trades with my broker. All right? With my broker's platform, but not on NinjaTrader 8. NinjaTrader does allow you to trade through it, but there are some disadvantages to it. The first one is that you need to have their paid version, which is not a huge deal, but you need to buy it. And secondly, they only work with limited number of brokers and I personally wasn't able to choose from those. I prefer to choose my own broker, not just pick one from list of recommended brokers that NinjaTrader provides. All right? So, that's why I use it for analysis only and then I do my trading with my broker's platform. Now, many people ask me for order flow software on MetaTrader platform or on TradingView platform. Unfortunately, this is not possible. I know those platforms are very popular, but problem is the data which they provide. It's 1-minute data only and for order flow trading, this is just not good enough. So, this is the main reason order flow on those platforms is a no-go. Also, those platforms are very limited for custom coding, but the main reason is the thing that they don't really provide tick data. Now, talking about the FXCM data, this is the link where you can get free FXCM data to connect with your NinjaTrader 8 platform. You just set up a demo there. You'll get credentials. You set up a connection in NinjaTrader and you are all set. You have a free unlimited forex data in NinjaTrader. Beautiful. Their forex data are reliable. Also, good sample size and I can only recommend them for strategies using total volumes, strategies which I was showing you today, as well as for strategies working with up tick down tick calculation. I've already said it. The data is free and it is unlimited. You know what? Let me show you how to get the data into your NinjaTrader platform, so you have no problems doing that. So, let me click that link. So, this is where that link will lead you. You just fill in your email in here. It needs to be your email because you'll get the credentials there on your email. Select your country. This actually doesn't need to be your country. There's just a list of countries. Some of them they accept, some of them they don't, but doesn't matter. Let me go Spain, for example. You enter your email and then go trade now. You know what? You actually don't need to fill a proper email because they'll give you the credentials on next screen. So, let me just create a fake email. Go trade now. And boom. Here you go. So, I'll just move this uh to my another screen and use it to connect to FXCM data. So, now I'm back in the NinjaTrader 8 platform. I go to connections. As you can see, I'm already connected to FXCM data, but you won't be, so you go to configure right here. There'll be a FXCM option for you to double click, so you find it. Double click it and it will appear in here. It will appear in here among the configured. And then, you just copy the login and password you got. Login was this one. I'll copy the password as well. Maybe you want to click this, so it connects automatically when you start up NinjaTrader 8 platform. And you hit apply. And that's it. Then you go to connections and just click this and the green button will show you that you are connected. Nice and clean way how to get good quality data. Now, we are almost at the end of the webinar, and as a special thank you for staying until the end, I wanted to offer you my books. You can find all those three books, volume profile, order flow, and stock investing books in the link below this video. So, just click the link, fill in your email address, and download the books for free. All those books became Amazon best-selling books, actually. So, it's not like you are downloading a quick start guide or a 10-page PDF, but those are actually like around 200 pages each one of them. So, I really recommend checking those out. And if you are interested in little more than just books, then what I recommend is checking out my educational trading courses and indicators on my website. So, if you go to trader-dale.com, and then, if you click trading course and tools right here at the top, then it will take you to this page. And what I have for you is a special discount on my order flow pack. So, let me scroll down a bit. This is the order flow pack, and it consists of my custom-made order flow software. That's the order flow software which I was showing you in today's webinar. What you will also get is order flow video course, which is 12-hour long video course on order flow trading, and also my custom-made volume profile indicators for various trading platforms. The reason that volume profile is included in this pack is that it very nicely works and complements the order flow. So, those two together make wonders. And in that video course, I'll show you how. All right? Now, additionally to all that, you are also getting free tech support, which means that my assistant will connect to your computer and set everything up for you. So, he'll install the NinjaTrader 8 platform, install the workspaces, connect you to data, and install the software. You won't need to do anything. You just sit back and relax, and this will give you sort of a jump start, so you won't need to do that yourself, and you can focus on your own learning and trading. Now, I offer all this for a special price right here as a special thanks for watching this webinar. So, if you are interested in order flow course, as I think you probably are since you stayed until the end, then you can make use of this and get it for a discounted price. And if you are still not sure, what you can do is read what other members have to say about the service, about the software, either on Trustpilot site or on the ForexPeaceArmy site. You'll find many reviews there, so check them out. See what other members have to say, and I'm pretty sure that will be the final push to join our trading community. So, thanks so much for watching the webinar. I hope you found it useful. I hope you liked it, and I'll be looking forward to seeing you next time, maybe in some next video, webinar, or if you decide to join our ranks, then I'll see you in the members area. So, until then, happy trading.
