The ULTIMATE Beginner's Guide to TREND LINES
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KQZxA5DWv6w

When it comes to trend lines, the smallest details can make or break your edge. In this video, I'll reveal all the trend line secrets you need to know so you can turn them into powerful tools in your trading arsenal. Without further ado, let's begin. A trend line is a straight line that connects two or more price points and extends into the future to act as support or resistance. In an uptrend, it's drawn connecting lows to define a support. in a downtrend is drawn connecting highs to define a resistance. It simplifies price movement a little bit and brings structure to what might seem like chaos. The question that emerges now is how to draw trend lines properly. There are mainly three ways of drawing trend lines. Connecting candle shadows, connecting candle bodies, or connecting shadows to bodies or bodies to shadows. Let's move on to real price charts to see examples of the three methods in action. Starting with the method of connecting candle shadows, which is perhaps the most common. For example, in this chart, we have a downtrend, meaning lower highs and lower lows. If we connect the very tip of the candle shadows that form these two highs, and then extend this line into the future, we'll see that this trend line forms a successful resistance level. Later on in the same chart, we can see that a trend line connecting candle bodies would produce a similar result but with a slightly different angle. That can happen sometimes. Different forms of drawing trend lines will point to similar results. But it's also true that sometimes only one type of trend line works. The idea here is to ignore candle shadows and focus on placing trend lines at candle bodies like we can see in the chart. In this other chart, we can see an example of upper trend line connecting higher lows and projecting a line of support into the future. In this trend line, we are considering candle shadows. By advancing price action, we see that this line fails to capture a pullback in the future. If we adjust the trend line now connecting a shadow to a body, we can see that the trend line captures the pullback perfectly. Here we have another quick example, but now for a downward trend line. By connecting the shadows only, the trend line fails to capture the pullback. However, if we connect a shadow to a body, changing the angle of the trend line, we can see that the new angle points to a successful resistance later on. Naturally, you may be wondering which is the best way to draw trend lines out of these three. And here's the catch. All of them are equally valid. What matters more is how future price action reacts to the trend line. So instead of blindly picking one method, your job is to investigate. Which type of trend line is price currently respecting, if any at all. That's the trend line you should be using. Keep in mind that a lot of the time price will not be responsive to any of the three trend lines or price will simply not reach the level outlined by any of the three trend lines. So the type of trend line you use is not as important as the way price reacts to it when and if it reaches it. That's the major lesson here. You can also make things simple and only focus on one type of trend line and simply ignore the rest. That's perfectly fine. You will miss a few opportunities, but on the other hand, your analysis will be easier. Once you have good trend lines on your chart, now you need to confirm them. There are a few things you must pay attention to in order to confirm your trend lines. Keep in mind that many of the trend lines you will draw in your chart will simply not be confirmed or used. Generally speaking, you must pay attention to number one, the number of touches. A trend line gains credibility each time price touches it and respects it without breaking through decisively. When traders see a line being respected multiple times, they begin to trust it more and base their decisions around it. You must pay attention to two kinds of touches. The swing touch and the shadow touch. For example, in this chart, we have a trend line where the black arrows represent the swing touches, meaning bigger price movements that return to the trend line without violating it. And in the green arrows, we have the shadow touches, meaning individual candle shadows that touch the trend line without violating it. The main point here is that if we only focus on the swing touches, this trend line only has three touch points. If we consider swing and shadow touches, this trend line has six touches. This is a subtle detail that can make a big difference in the end. Notice also that all swing touches are shadow touches, but not all shadow touches are swing touches. Number two, candlestick reactions. One of the most important things related to trend lines is to observe the candle formations that occur when price indeed touches the trend line you drew. We can boil these behaviors down to three main patterns. Although there are variations and nuances that will appear. the reaction candle, the inside candle, and the outside candle. Paying attention to this is absolutely critical when using trend lines. It can literally make or break your edge. Like we said previously, the way price action reacts to your trend line is far more important than the type of trend line you use. That's the key to identifying a good trend line. A reaction candle is basically a candle with a prominent shadow. When a candle touches a trend line and produces a larger shadow, traders have the impression that this trend line is good and they start to act as if this trend line will hold in the future. In this chart, we have an example of reaction candle or pin bar as some traders like to call it. This is the third time price touched the trend line and it produced a larger lower shadow giving the impression that the market respects the trend line as solid. We can see that price indeed took off right after An inside candle is a candle whose range is fully contained in the previous candle's range. It's a classic sign of momentary stop leading to a strong movement. In this chart, we can see a simple trend line using the first two arrows to establish the angle. In the third swing touch, we see the formation of an inside candle. Zooming in a little bit, we can see how the candle is respecting the trend line while being fully contained in the previous candle's range. The classic inside candle entry setup is to place a buy stop order one tick above the high of the inside candle. An outside candle is the opposite of the inside candle. It completely engulfves the previous candle's range. This is a classic sign of initiative movement. In this chart, we can see a trend line grounded on the first two arrows. Notice that the trend line connects a shadow to a body this time. In the third swing touch, we see the formation of a large outside candle that makes it clear that once the market hit the trend line, he found a bunch of aggressive buyers. One problem with this situation is that if the outside candle has too much volatility, it can be difficult to get in the trade keeping a small stop. Low volatility entries are almost always better. Number three, multiple forms of confluence or integration. One question traders usually ask is how to increase the win rate while trading with trend lines. The answer is another important aspect of trading which is to use conflence also known as integration. The greater the number of different techniques happening at the same time and place the greater the chance of success in the trade. This requires that you understand other trading methods and techniques which are many. There are a few that work really well in alignment with trend lines such as standard support and resistance, momentum divergence, VWAP, and a pitchfork. Let's see some examples of confluence or integration in real charts. In this chart, we have an example of downward trend line with bearish continuation divergence. In other words, we see price action producing lower highs and lower lows. Meanwhile, the RSI is producing higher highs. Continuation divergence is easier to trade rather than reversal divergence simply because it's a signal in favor of the trend. In the third swing touch of this trend line, we have a total of six shadow touches. We do see price reacting in the way that is expected at the third touch. Since the trend lines are a tool for you to trade with the trend, the continuation divergence can increase the quality of your trades dramatically. Another great technique to align with trend lines is the good old support and resistance line. If you think about this for a moment, you realize that trend lines are nothing more than sloped support and resistance lines. So, they work under the same principles. In this chart, you can see the alignment between a trend line and a support level that could be easily identified in the chart. If we zoom in, we can see more clearly that we have a reaction candle that touches the trend line and the support line simultaneously without violating any of the lines. Right after, you can see that price action went to the upside significantly. Another great technique to use along with the trend lines is the anchored VWAP which lets you choose the starting point of calculation of the main VWAP line and standard deviation bands around it. The VWAP is used by institutions as a benchmark of execution. So, it's worth looking into it. I will talk deeply about it in my upcoming advanced order flow course. For example, in this chart, you can see the anchor VWOP placed on one of the lows that forms this uptrend. Later into the trend, you can see how price action comes back to the main VWAP line and resumes direction, which is a very common phenomenon. In this way, you can use trend lines to confirm the price reaction at the VWAP. In this chart, we can draw a very simple trend line connecting the first two lows in the trend, including the one that was used to place the VWAP. Similarly to the previous example with standard support and resistance lines, price action interacts with the main view up line and the trend line simultaneously in a way that suggests it's going to respect it. Notice also that the trend line provides a second chance to get in the trade. Another great tool to combine with the trend line is the Andrew's pitchfork. One of the goals of the pitchfork is to highlight areas where price is exhausting its energy based on the recent geometry of price action. It's a great tool to combine with the trend line because price should also exhaust its energy in reverse at a trend line. For example, in this chart, we can see a simple trend line connecting the shadows of two highs. And we can also see an Andrew pitchfork drawn using the recent geometry of price action. Notice how price ends up reacting to the trend line and the median line of the pitchfork simultaneously. That's a great indication that price will reverse immediately, which it did in this case. Whenever you draw a trend line, you naturally expect price to respect and bounce off of it. However, there are a few different things that can happen when price reaches a trend line. And by being aware of these possible scenarios, you can anticipate what the market will do and adapt your strategy in real time. At the trend line, price action can bounce, it can produce a breakout, or it can produce a false breakout. Let's quickly explore each of these three scenarios. Like I said previously, the bounce is what every trader expects to happen when price meets a trend line. For example, here we have a trend line drawn from a shadow to a body. Price then drifts away from the trend line, comes back to it and bounces off of it, comes back down again and finally takes off. Once again, remember the candle patterns that can occur at the trend line in order to confirm a bounce. The second scenario that can happen is the breakout. At some point, a valid trend line that has been working well so far will break simply because a trend line cannot work forever and the market is constantly changing. The breakout happens when price zooms through the trend line decisively. The trick about the breakout is to think about trend lines in the same way you think about support and resistance lines. A trend line that has been working as resistance will often turn into support and vice versa. For example, in this chart, we have a valid downward trend line. Eventually, price zooms through and comes back to test it on the other side as support. Whether you can frame a trade using the scenario will depend on the confluence with other techniques. In this example, we can see that the moment price tests the trend line on the other side as support coincides with the previous horizontal support level highlighted by the green line. Still in this chart, we have a similar situation that happened a little before. This is another trend line we can draw here. Notice that price eventually zooms through it decisively and then comes back to test it on the other side as support. The third scenario we must worry about is the false breakout. This is the trickiest of them all. Sometimes price will deceptively break a trend line, tricking traders into a breakout setup only to re-enter the valley trend line territory again and resume its previous direction. For example, in this chart, we can see that this simple trend line is broken to the downside, but price quickly re-enters it and resumes the direction to the upside. Let's zoom in on the false breakout to see what happened more accurately. Here we see that price breaks to the downside, then tests the upper trend line as resistance and starts going down. Up to that point, this would be a perfectly valid breakout scenario. However, in the next candle, we have something unusual, a massive reaction candle giving the impression that powerful buyers are present due to the very prominent lower shadow. Right after that, price zooms back into the upper trend line channel. And the subtle detail here is that price comes back down briefly and tests the trend line again as support with a reaction candle before going to the upside. Beyond knowing how to draw trend lines, how to validate them, observe the price action behavior around them, and knowing the possible scenarios that can occur, you also must know different trend line types and important properties they have. At the end of the day, a trend line is nothing more than a type of sloped support and resistance line. So they work under the same principle of switch and retest that standard support and resistance lines follow. That's a very important intuition to have. Under normal conditions, traders draw trend lines in the direction of the main trend, but it's possible to work with counter trend lines as well. This allows the trader to see hidden levels of support and resistance that would not be seen otherwise. For example, in this chart, we can see a trend line following the uptrend, but we can also draw a counter trend line and the result is clear. A counter trend line breakout and test acts as a signal that the trend will resume and provides additional support for the previous upward trend line. Notice how price action reacts when it meets both lines simultaneously. Every trend line has a specific angle. The general guidelines to keep in mind here is that trend lines that are too steep, meaning above a 45° angle, tend to be less reliable. That's because they are the result from connecting highs or lows in a fastmoving market. And fastmoving markets are unsustainable. Trend lines with 45° or less are more reliable because they outline markets that are trending but in a sustainable pace which allows the trend line to work for longer. Another great thing about trend lines is that they are the precursor to trading channels which are also a very powerful trading technique. To draw a channel, you must first draw a trend line connecting two highs or two lows. then you will duplicate this line with the same angle and ground it on the opposite market extreme. So if you drew the trend line using lows, you will ground the duplicate trend line on a high, usually the one in between the lows that originated the trend line. Channels work great for defining takerit levels as they often highlight areas where price is overextended. Another cool property of channels is that the longer you stay in the trade, the greater the potential profit. So the time you spend in the trade is proportionally justified so to speak. We move on now to the important aspect of entries and stops. Targets will be discussed right after. The most important thing about entries is that they must be objective, precise, and derived from market logic. We can use the candlestick patterns discussed earlier as triggers for our trades. But you must keep in mind that they should be used in context. Both the reaction candle and the outside candle can serve as a trigger to open a trade at the open of the next candle. The inside candle can be used in the classic hook pattern where a stop order is placed one tick above the high of the inside candle in the case of a long trade or one tick below the low of the inside candle in the case of a short trade. The great thing about these candle patterns is that they usually signal an entry right after an important high or low just formed. Let's observe an example. Here we have a simple trend line connecting a body to a shadow. When price comes back to it, it forms an indecisive candle and right after an inside candle. The entry here is pretty clear. It's a sell stop order one tick below the low of the inside candle. And the stop is above the highest high of the last few candles. Keep in mind that this is a pretty tight stop and sometimes the market noise will stop you out even if you are correct about your trend line and market direction. That's the price of a tight stop. Unfortunately, notice also that this setup occurred within the context of a bearish continuation divergence in the RSI, which helps to increase the chances of success quite a lot. If we duplicate this trend line to a significant low, we form a very reliable channel that acts as a dynamic support in this case. And the longer price takes to reach it, the larger the target becomes. You can even add more channels to help confirm the one you already have. Pay attention to the volatility of your entries because a higher volatility will put your entry further from the stop and then you'll need a bigger target to justify the trade in terms of riskreward. Trend lines have some unique features that allow us to enhance our risk management framework so to speak. Just like channels which are derived from trend lines increase the target as time passes by. The trend line itself can act as a trailing stop at a given point. Your stop- loss will move into profitable territory and in that case you have a win-win scenario. You can only get out of the trade with a profit. The only question is whether the profit will be big or small. But that's a very effective riskmanagement technique. Some traders like to let the trade run in the attempt to catch a massive trend. This works a lot better if the trader gets in the beginning of the trend, of course, and there are several methods for you to learn how to do that. You can use methods like the Elliot wave theory and the YF method, for example. You can find free courses for both in my channel. In this case, the trader will not use a take-profit target, but rather a trend line breakout to get out of the trade. In this chart, we can see a trend line that was drawn based on two shadows outlined by the black arrows. The short trade was triggered at the red arrow in the third swing touch of the trend line. The trade is only closed when price decisively breaks out of the trend line to the upside. Notice that at one point the trade reached its maximum possible profit. In that case, other methods would be necessary to close the trade at the lowest point possible. The main thing here is to realize that using breakouts as an exit allows for that possibility. A trend line is quite useful in terms of risk management because they are the precursor to channels and channels themselves cannot only be used as a dynamic target but they give you a clear view of the riskreward in the beginning stages of the trade which helps gauge whether the trade is worth taking or not in terms of its risk profile. Trend lines are not just lines on a chart. They are psychological representations of market consensus and behavior. They reflect collective belief systems, expectations, and emotional reactions of traders. Trend lines work because many traders believe they work, not because the lines you draw in the chart represent actual physical barriers for price action. When enough people see a trend line, they make decisions around it like triggering a trade when price touches it, exiting a trade when price breaks it, and so on. This shared belief system gives trend lines their power. There are a few psychological traps involved in trading trend lines you should be aware of. The first is overconfidence. Sometimes you'll see a trend line being respected consistently that will give you a feeling of certainty about the future reactions of this trend line. That is an illusion. The only certainty in trading is that there's going to be uncertainty. Powerful trend lines can fail at any moment and all of them eventually will. Another psychological trap commonly associated with trend lines is revenge trading. That's common, especially in the false breakout scenario where you'll be wiped out of a trade idea that had the right bias. Revenge trading is bad because it's an emotional decision, not a logical one. It disrupts your discipline and that ends up leading to other mistakes. You must accept that sometimes you'll get stopped even if you plan everything correctly. That's part of trading. The third trap is the famous fear of missing out. It's common for traders to feel like they are missing the bus every time price action touches a trend line, so to speak. If it was that simple, we would not need the rest of this video. The traders that succeed with trend lines are the ones that follow the principles of drawing, confirmation, integration, and risk management like it has been laid out. It's okay to miss opportunities while learning how to do that. There is always another trade to take. The fourth trap is something called analysis paralysis, which is when the analysis itself prevents you from trading, which is the precise opposite of what you should do. Things like drawing too many trend lines or trying to find the absolute perfect trend line in the chart will simply paralyze you. You must be able to commit to the most important lines in the chart and give some margin of error for things like test of the trend line. Let's move on to the final part of the course where we talk about the advantages and disadvantages of trend lines starting with the advantages. Number one, trend lines are easy to draw and understand compared to other forms of line work. Number two, trend lines help define uptrends, downtrends, and rangebound markets more clearly and define the angle of a trend visually. Number three, unlike horizontal support and resistance, trend lines move with price and that opens a new set of possibilities that don't exist with standard support and resistance. Number four, the trend line itself can serve as a trailing stop. Trend lines are also the precursor to channels which are especially helpful in determining dynamic targets. Number five, a proper trend line forces you to wait for price to reach a desired level that agrees with market structure. That can help mitigate a lot of bad trades far from structure. Number six, trend lines are widely used and that makes the self-fulfilling behavior more pronounced. A clear setup at a trend line tends to be more reliable because of that. Let's now move on to some of the disadvantages of trend lines. Number one, there is some subjectivity in the way you draw trend lines, and there are many trend lines to draw at all times. Number two, the false breakout makes everything a bit trickier. Price only bounced off or broke out of the trend line, this would be much easier. Number three, even though trend line trades can be very accurate, they usually don't happen at the beginning of a trend because a trend line requires some previous structure to be properly valid. Number four, as is the case with any other trading technique or method, trend lines cannot predict price action by themselves. It's required that the trader integrates the knowledge of trend lines with other techniques for optimal results. Trend lines remain one of the most foundational tools in technical analysis. Not because they are perfect predictors, but because they reflect a deeper psychological truth about the market. Traders look for structure and chaos. However, they are not foolproof. They are subjective, prone to false breakouts, and can mislead traders who rely on them in isolation or without context. The key to mastering trend lines is to use them as one layer of confirmation, not as a standalone strategy. When combined with other tools like we have seen in some examples of this course, they become far more reliable. That's it for this video. I hope you found value in it. If you wish to learn more about powerful and advanced trading techniques, please check out my courses and ebooks. You can learn more about them at my website fractalflowpro.com. If you have any questions or are interested in bundle deals, you can send me an email directly at support@frflowpro.com. If you've made it this far in the video and wish to support the ongoing creation of free videos like this one, please help support the channel by clicking the like button, subscribing to the channel, activating the notifications button, leaving your feedback in the comment section, and sharing the video with your trading community. Thank you very much for watching and I hope to see you in the next videos. Take care.
